{{refimprovment date=september 2011}}
dhyan chand (29 august 1905   3 december 1979) was an indian field hockey player, who is widely considered as the greatest field hockey player of all time. chand is most remembered for his extraordinary goal-scoring feats, in addition to earning three olympic gold medals (1928, 1932, and 1936) in field hockey, during an era where india was the most dominant team in hockey.
known as  the wizard  for his superb ball control, chand played his final international match in 1948, having scored more than 400 goals during his international career. the governmentof india awarded him the third highest (then second highest) civilian honour of padma bhushan in 1956.


== early lifeedit ==
dhyan chand was born in allahabad, uttar pradesh in a bais rajput family. he was the elder brother of another player roop singh. his father sameshwar singh was in the british indian army, and he played hockey in the army. dhyan chand had two brothers   mool singh, and roop singh. because of sameshwar numerous army transfers, the family had to move to different cities and as such chand had to terminate his education after only six years of schooling. the family finally settled in jhansi, uttar pradesh, india. being in the military, dhyan's father got a small piece of land for a house.
young chand had no serious inclination towards sports, though he loved wrestling. he stated that he did not remember whether he played any hockey worth mentioning before he joined the army, though he said that he occasionally indulged in casual games in jhansi with his friends.
chand joined the indian army at the age of 16. the hindi word chand literally means the moon. since dhyan singh used to practice a lot during the night after his duty hours, he used to wait for the moon to come out so that the visibility in the field (during his era there were no flood lights) improved. he was hence called "chand", by his fellow players, as his practice sessions at night invariably coincided with the coming out of the moon.
between 1922 and 1926, chand exclusively played army hockey tournaments and regimental games. chand was ultimately selected for the indian army team which was to tour new zealand. the team won 18 matches, drew 2 and lost only 1, receiving praise from all spectators. following this, in the two test matches against the new zealand squad, the team won the first and narrowly lost the second. returning to india, chand was immediately promoted to lance naik.
after successfully lobbying for reintroducing field hockey in the olympics, the newly formed indian hockey federation (ihf) made preparations to send its best possible team for the 1928 amsterdam olympics. in 1925, an inter-provincial tournament was held to select india's national field hockey team. five teams participated in the inaugural nationals   united provinces (up), punjab, bengal, rajputana and central provinces. chand got permission from the army to play for the united provinces team.
in its first game in the tournament. dhyan chand as the centre-forward, and marthins, their inside-right, were particularly happy in their understanding of each other. dhyan chand attracted much attention by his clever stickwork. his penetrating runs and judicious passes seemed to assure for him a position in the team that is to take part in the olympic games.
quite early in the game, it became evident that dhyan chand was again at his best. in combination with marthins he took the ball away to the right and marthins did well to give him a good pass. quick as lightning, dhyan chand shot a goal. the ball struck one of the defenders' stick and went into the net, giving goalkeeper collie no chance. a goal within 3 minutes of the start was more than what the most optimistic of the up supporters could expect. at the interval, up led by three goals to nil.
on their part, rajputana put every ounce of their efforts to score. the up goal had more than one narrow escape, but were the winners of a fine exhibition match. up 3   rajputana 1.
buoyed by the success of the tournament, it was decided that it would be held every two years. after two more trial matches between various hopefuls, the olympic team (including chands as center-forward) was announced and assembled in bombay. center-half broome eric pinniger was selected as the captain. the ihf was initially low on funds since the provinces of bombay, madras and burma had turned a deaf ear to their financial appeal, but they managed to scrape enough money. the olympic team then played a match against the bombay xi, and amazingly lost 3-2, even though singh scored both his team's goals. with a quiet send-off, the team left for england on 10 march, to play 11 matches against local sides as well in the folkestone festival, winning all. it was also said that the great britain did not send a team in 1928 amsterdam olympics after their national team was defeated by the indian team at folkestone. this is best cited in kapur's book "romance of hockey" where a despatch of h. sutherland stark, london representative of "sports", a magazine of lahore, tells the story better than any other comment : "for reasons it is difficult to understand the english hockey association have taken up a very stiff attitude towards indian hockey in recent years and have repeatedly been twitted about it by even their own supporters. the editor of a leading sports newspaper described them to me as an intensely conservative body, but there seems to be something more than conservative behind their unwillingness apparently ever to meet india ina full international encounter"  finally, on 24 april, the team arrived in amsterdam to embark on a tour of the low countries. in all the pre-olympic matches against local dutch, german and belgian teams, the indian team won by large margins.
in the 1928 amsterdam summer olympics, the indian team was put in the division a table, with austria, belgium, denmark and switzerland . on 17 may the indian national hockey team made its olympic debut against austria, winning 6-0, with chand scoring 3 goals. the next day india defeated belgium 9-0; however chand only scored once. on 20 may, denmark lost to india 5-0, with chand netting 3. two days later, he scored 4 goals when india defeated switzerland 6-0 in the semi-finals.
the final match took place on 26 may, with india facing the home team of the netherlands. the indian team's better players feroze khan, ali shaukat and kher singh were on the sick list and chand himself was ill. however, even with a skeletal side, india managed to defeat the hosts 3-0 (with singh scoring 2), and the indian team won its country's first olympic gold medal. keeper richard allen did not concede any goals. chand was the top scorer of the tournament, scoring 14 goals in 5 matches. a newspaper report about india's triumph said,
on returning to india, the team was received by thousands of people at the bombay harbour, compared to the three people who had seen them off.
posted in waziristan in the north-west frontier province (now in pakistan) with his new 2/14 punjab regiment, chand was cut off from the ihf, which was by now controlled by civilians. the inter-provincial tournament was being held to select the new olympic team; the ihf wrote to the army sports control board to grant singh leaves to participate in the nationals. his platoon refused. chand received news that he had been selected by the ihf for the olympic team without any formalities. the rest of his teammates however, had to prove their skills in the inter-provincial tournament, which was won by punjab. as such, seven players from punjab were selected for the olympic team. apart from chand, broome eric pinnigar, leslie hammond and richard allen were the other 1928 olympians retained in the team. chand's brother roop singh was also included in the squad as a left-in. lal shah bokhari was selected as captain.
the olympic team then played practice matches in india before heading for colombo. in two matches in ceylon, the olympic team beat the all ceylon xi 20-0 and 10-0. wrote one newspaper on the first match, "perfection is perilous, for it tempts the gods. for once, this was proved wrong for even the god of weather paid tribute to the genius of the indian players. rain clouds, which had threatened to ruin the game, vanished into the blue, and thousands of spectators spent a happy hour marvelling at the incomparable artistry of the indian team."
the india team set sail for san francisco on 30 may, and arrived on 6 july. they reached los angeles three weeks before the opening ceremony of the olympics, which took place on 30 july. on 4 august 1932, india played its first match against japan and won 11-1. chand, roop singh, gurmit singh each scored thrice, and dickie carr once. in the final on 11 august, india played against hosts usa. india won 24-1, a world record at that time, and once again clinched the gold medal. chand scored 8 times, roop singh 10, gurmit singh 5 and pinniger once. in fact, chand along with his brother roop, scored 25 out of the 35 goals scored by india. this led to them being dubbed the 'hockey twins'.
one los angeles newspaper wrote, "the all-india field hockey team which g. d. sondhi brought to los angeles to defend their 1928 olympic title, was like a typhoon out of the east. they trampled under their feet and all but shoved out of the olympic stadium the eleven players representing the united states."
the team then embarked on a tour of the united states. they played a match on 20 august against a united states xi, almost the same team that they had faced in los angeles. even after loaning its second keeper arthur hind, for a half, the team won 24-1.
after setting sail from new york, the team arrived at england. the then embarked on a hectic tour, playing nine matches in various countries in a fortnight, commencing on 2 september. they played four internationals-against the netherlands, germany, czechoslovakia and hungary. the team then reached ceylon and india, playing a number of matches to pay for their expenses. at the end of the tour, india had played 37 matches, winning 34, drawing 2, with one abandoned. chand scored 133 of the 338 indian goals.
in india he is often referred to as 'hockey ka jaadugar' with translates to "magician of the game of hockey". it is also rumored chand used to practice ball control by sprinting along the length of railway tracks while balancing the ball on the track rail.


=== captaincy and 1936 berlin summer olympicsedit ===

in 1933, chand's home team, the jhansi heroes participated in and won the beighton cup, which he considered the most prestigious of indian hockey tournaments. later, he would state,
in kolkata, the heroes also won the lakshmibilas cup tournament, which was open only to indian teams. in 1935, they successfully defended their beighton cup title, though lost the subsequent year.
in december 1934, the ihf decided to send a team to new zealand in the new year. chand and his brother were immediately selected. when the nawab of manavadar declined to play, chand was appointed captain. in the subsequent tour, the team played a total of 48 matches on this tour, with 28 in new zealand and the remainder in india, ceylon and australia. india won every match, scoring 584 goals and conceding only 40. of these 48 matches, chand played 43 and scored a total of 201 goals.
upon returning to india, chand resumed his duties in the barracks. in december 1935 the ihf decided to stage the inter-provincial tournament to select the olympic team. chand was again denied permission to leave his platoon, though once again he was selected without formalities. the final team assembled in delhi on 16 june and played against the delhi hockey xi. incredibly, they lost 4-1. after this inauspicious start, the team went on a successful tour of the subcontinent, finally departing for marseilles on 27 june. they arrived on 10 july, and after an uncomfortable journey in third-class compartments, reached berlin on 13 july. on 17 july, the indian team played a practice match against germany and lost 4-1. as such, manager pankaj gupta informed the ihf that ali dara had to be sent immediately to replace the out of form mirza masood.
on 5 august, india won its first match against hungary 4-0. india won the rest of the group matches against usa (7-0, with chand scoring 2 goals) and japan (9-0, with chand scoring 4). on 10 august, ali dara arrived. their fourth match was the semi-final against france, whom they defeated 10-0, with chand scoring 4 goals. meanwhile, germany had beaten denmark 6-0, beaten afghanistan 4-1 and in the play-offs, had defeated the netherlands 3-0. thus, india and germany were to clash in the 1936 berlin olympics field hockey final on 15 august.

on the morning of the final, the entire team was nervous since they had been defeated the last time they had faced germany. in the locker room, pankaj gupta produced a congress tricolour. reverently the team saluted it, prayed and marched onto the field. the german team was successful in restricting the india side to a single goal until the first interval. after the interval, the indian team launched an all-out attack, easily defeating germany 8-1, incidentally the only goal scored against india in that olympic tournament. chand top-scored with 3 goals, dara scored 2 and roop singh, tapsell and jaffar one each. describing the game, the special correspondent of the hindu wrote,
there have been many erroneous media reports over the years claiming that dhyan chand scored 6 goals in india's 8-1 victory over germany in the 1936 olympic final. however, major dhyan chand in his autobiography titled  goal!  published in 1952 by sport & pastime, chennai, writes as follows:
 when germany was four goals down, a ball hit allen's pad and rebounded. the germans took full advantage of this and made a rush, netting the ball before we could stop it. that was the only goal germany would score in the match against our eight, and incidentally the only goal scored against india in the entire olympic tournament. india's goal-getters were roop singh, tapsell and jaffar with one each, dara two and myself three. 
the record for most goals by an individual in an olympic final has belonged to balbir singh, sr. another famous indian hockey hero since the 1952 helsinki olympic games. he set this record by scoring 5 goals in india's 6-1 victory over the netherlands for the gold medal win. the previous holder of this record was england's reggie pridmore with his 4 goals in england's 8-1 victory over ireland in the 1908 olympic final.
international hockey federation records also attribute only 3 of the 8 goals to dhyan chand in the berlin olympic final.
the final was included in the leni riefenstahl film on the 1936 olympics, olympia. overall, in 3 olympic tournaments, chand had scored 33 goals in 12 matches.


=== east african tour and final tournamentsedit ===
after returning from berlin, chand joined his regiment. between 1936 and the commencement of the war in 1939, he largely confined himself to army hockey, with one visit to kolkata to take part in the beighton cup tournament in 1937. after the beighton cup, chand spent four months in a military camp in pachmarhi to attend military classes. later, he was promoted to lieutenant.
towards the closing phases of the war, chand led an army hockey team which toured around the battlefields in manipur, burma, the far east and ceylon. when the war ended in 1945, chand decided that the indian hockey team needed new young players. in 1947, the ihf was requested by the asian sports association (asa) of east africa to send a team to play a series of matches. the asa made a condition that chand should be included in the team. once again, chand was chosen as captain.
the team assembled in bombay on 23 november 1947, and reached mombasa on 15 december and played 9 matches in british east africa winning all. chand, though now in his forties, still managed to score 61 goals in 22 matches.
after returning from the east african tour in early 1948, chand decided to gradually phase out his involvement in 'serious hockey'. he played exhibition matches, leading a rest of india side against state teams and the 1948 olympic team which defeated chand's side 2-1, even though an aging chand scored his side's lone goal. chand's last match was leading the rest of india team against the bengal side. the match ended in a draw after which the bengal hockey association organized a public function to honor chand's services to indian hockey.


== last daysedit ==
in 1951, captain dhyan chand was honored at the national stadium with dhyan chand tournament. satinder mullick remembers that dhyan chand took him and children of capt. kashmira lal, sports secretary of army hockey federation. dhyan chand was staying in jodhpur mess. he was admired by all at the national stadium.
in 1956, at the age of 51, he retired from the army with the rank of major. the government of india honored him the same year by conferring him the padma bhushan (india's third highest civilian honour).
after retirement, he taught at coaching camps at mount abu, rajasthan. later, he accepted the position of chief hockey coach at the national institute of sports, patiala, a post he held for several years. chand spent his last days in his hometown of jhansi, uttar pradesh, india. m dhyan chand died on 3 december 1979 at the all india institute of medical sciences, delhi. he was cremated at the jhansi heroes ground in his hometown, after some initial problems in getting clearance. his regiment, the punjab regiment, accorded him full military honours.


=== legacyedit ===

dhyan chand remains a legendary figure in indian and world hockey. his astounding skills have been glorified in various apocryphal stories and anecdotes. a number of such these revolve around the fact that singh had an extraordinary control over dribbling the ball. 29th august, chand's birthday, is celebrated as national sports day in india. the president gives away sport-related awards such as the rajiv gandhi khel ratna, arjuna award and dronacharya award on this day at the rashtrapati bhavan, india.
the union minister of india gives away 20th national award 2012, namely gem of india, to the magician of hockey i.e. major dhyan chand. the award was received by his son ashok dhyan chand (hockey olympian himself) on behalf of his late hon'ble father; award was given by journalist association of india under the flagship of journalists federation of india, sirifort auditorium, new delhi, india, on 22 september 2012.
india's highest award for lifetime achievement in sports is the dhyan chand award which has been awarded annually from 2002 to sporting figures who not only contribute through their performance but also contribute to the sport after their retirement. the national stadium, delhi was renamed dhyan chand national stadium in 2002 in his honour.
he scored over 400 goals in his career, from 1926 to 1948.
astro-turf hockey pitch, at the indian gymkhana club in london has been named after indian hockey legend dhyan chand.
in 1956, at the age of 51, he retired from the army with the rank of major. after he retired he coached for a while, then settled in his beloved jhansi. however,the last days of dhyan chand were not very happy, as he was short of money and was badly ignored by the nation. once he went to a tournament in ahmedabad and they turned him away not knowing who he was. he developed liver cancer, and was sent to a general ward at the aiims, new delhi.
once, while playing a hockey game, major dhyan chand was not able to score a goal against the opposition team. after several misses, he argued with the match referee regarding the measurement of the goal post, and amazingly, it was found to not be in conformation with the official width of a goal post under international rules).
after india played its first match in the 1936 olympics, dhyan chand's magical stickwork drew crowds from other venues to the hockey field. a german newspaper carried a banner headline: 'the olympic complex now has a magic show too.' the next day, there were posters all over berlin: visit the hockey stadium to watch the indian magician dhyan chand in action.
legend has it that the fuhrer was so impressed by dhyan chand's wizardry with the stick that he offered the indian a chance to move to germany and the post of colonel in his army, which the indian is said to have declined with a smile.
during a match with germany in the 1936 olympics, dhyan chand lost a tooth in a collision with the particularly aggressive germany goalkeeper tito warnholtz. returning to the field after medical attention, dhyan chand reportedly told the players to "teach a lesson" to the germans by not scoring. the indians repeatedly took the ball to the german circle only to backpedal.
cricket world's legend don bradman and hockey's greatest player dhyan chand once came face to face at adelaide in 1935, when the indian hockey team was in australia. after watching dhyan chand in action, don bradman remarked "he scores goals like runs in cricket"
residents of vienna, austria, honoured him by setting up a statue of him with four hands and four sticks, depicting his control and mastery over the ball.
a tube station has been named after him in london, along with 358 other past and present olympic heroes, in the run-up to the games, starting on 27 july 2012. the transport for london has brought out a special 'olympic legends map', detailing all 361 tube stations. only six stops have been named after hockey players, with the three indians   dhyan chand, roop singh and leslie claudius   cornering the majority.
in the netherlands, the authorities broke his hockey stick to check if there was a magnet inside.
dhyan chand was among the nominees considered for india's highest civilian award, bharat ratna for 2014 and there was support for it. the award was then given to sachin tendulkar and c. n. r. rao. the family members of dhyan chand were disappointed with government decision. the rti was filed which suggested that the prime minister's office had ignored the recommendation from sports ministry on giving the award over sachin tendulkar.


== autobiographyedit ==
"goal" is the autobiography of hockey wizard dhyan chand, published by sport & pastime, chennai, 1952.


== see alsoedit ==
field hockey in india
india national field hockey team
list of indian hockey captains in olympics
ashok kumar singh
roop singh


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
" goal" an autobiography by major dhyan chand
"dhyan chand". olympics at sports-reference.com. sports reference llc. 
the indian who captivated even hitler, qaiser mohammad ali, rediff.com
feature: hockey's genius   dhyan chand, rohit brijnath, planetfieldhockey.com
gulu ezekiel and k. arumugam, great indian olympians
k. arumugam, dhyan chand centenary, hockey yearbook 2006.
a tribute to dhyan chand, rediff.com

singanalluru puttaswamayya muthuraju (24 april 1929   12 april 2006), known mononymously by his screen name rajkumar (kannada:            ), was an indian actor and singer in the kannada cinema. widely acclaimed as one of the finest actor in the history of indian cinema, he is considered a cultural icon, and holds a matin e idol status in the kannada diaspora, among whom he is popularly adulated as karnataka rathna(diamond of karnataka state), rajanna (brother raj), varanata (gifted actor), natasarvabhouma (emperor of acting), gaana gandharva (singer in the court of gods), and as annavru (beloved elder brother).
a method actor, rajkumar entered the film industry after his long stint as a dramatist with gubbi veeranna's gubbi drama company, which he joined at the age of eight, and got his first break as a lead in the 1954 film bedara kannappa, and went on to work in over 220 films, the 2000 super hit shabdavedhi being the last one. well known for his highly disciplined and simple lifestyle in both personal and professional fronts, rajkumar was also an avid yoga, pranayama and carnatic music performer. he is also credited for being the only indian super star who stayed away from acting the vicious acts of drinking, smoking and uttering swear words in all the roles he performed in his long spanning career of close to 50 years. at the age of 71, he was kidnapped from his farm house at gajanur (the place where he was brought up) by forest brigand veerappan. he was released after 108 days. he died of cardiac arrest at his residence in bangalore on 12 april 2006.
in his film career, rajkumar received eleven karnataka state film awards, ten south filmfare awards, two national film awards and a national film award for best playback singer. he received in 2002 the ntr national award. he was awarded an honorary doctorate from the university of mysore, and is a recipient of the padma bhushan and the dadasaheb phalke award in 1995 for the lifetime contribution to indian cinema.


== early lifeedit ==
rajkumar was born on april 24, 1929, at gajanur (talavadi block), madras presidency (now tamil nadu). his mother tongue was kannada. his father, singanalluru puttaswamayya, was an impoverished theatre-artist, was originally from singanallur, coimbatore district, tamil nadu, who played roles like kamsa, ravana and hiranyakashipu. his mother's name was lakshmamma. rajkumar dropped out of school at the age of 8 after having been discovered by a film producer, and played minor characters until he was 25 when he played his first lead role in a feature film. originally, he was named mutturajar, after the muthathi raya (a name for the hindu deity hanuman), which is a temple deity located in muthathi, a settlement on the banks of river kaveri in present-day karnataka.
before acting in what would become his first film as a male lead bedara kannappa, rajkumar appeared in srinivasa kalyana, as one of the seven saptarishi (sages). this was too small a role; he remembered only that the scene in which he acted was over before he recognized himself in the scene.


== film careeredit ==


=== actoredit ===
rajkumar began his acting career as a theatre artist with his father in a troupe led by gubbi veeranna. in 1953, he was spotted by film director h. l. n. simha who was on the lookout for a well-built, pleasant-faced youth for his film bedara kannappa. simha eventually signed him for the film and christened him "rajkumar". rajkumar would use the same name for the rest of his life. he later forayed into film production with ranadheera kanteerava, which he produced.
rajkumar acted only in kannada movies throughout his life, except one movie sri kalahastiswara mahatyam, which was released in telugu. which itself was the remake of his kannada film bedara kannappa. in his lifetime, rajkumar acted in 206 kannada movies, excluding guest appearances. he owned a film production company called vajreshwari production, which produces films under the banner of dakshayani combines. bhagyada bagilu was his 100th film, devatha manushya was his 200th movie, and shabdavedhi was his 206th and last film.
his character depictions ranged from lovers to double and triple roles', from action and mythological characters to portrayals of contemporary social causes in a career spanning over five decades. rajkumar along with his contemporaries udaya kumar and kalyan kumar were "kumara thrayaru" of the kannada cinema. he has acted in 36 films with udaya kumar and 5 films with kalyan kumar over the course of his career. the films presented a populist version of karnataka's history, focusing primarily on the southern kingdoms from the vijayanagara empire and later to the intrigue and mystery of the mysore royalty.

he produced and starred in ranadheera kanteerava, kaviratna kalidasa and shankar guru. he produced movies based on kannada novels and made many movies against perceived social evils, such as shabdavedi, which addressed drug abuse. he acted with many heroines in southern indian cinema, such as kannada's jayanti (in over 36 films), pandaribai (18 films), leelavathi (28 films), bharati (28 films), kalpana (19 films), aarathi (13 films), b. saroja devi (10 films), harini (8 films), madhavi (6 films), manjula (7 films), jayamala (6 films), lakshmi (5 films), geetha (5 films), saritha (5 films), jayaprada (4 films) and others from neighbouring states. the hindi actress rekha made her debut as heroine in the film operation jackpotnalli cid 999 with rajkumar. he acted under many directors of south indian cinema, from b.r. pantulu and puttanna kanagal to shankar nag and t. s. nagabharana. chi. udaya shankar has written dialogues and lyrics for 85 movies. he was known for only acting in kannada movies, even though he got many offers from different movie industries in india.
rajkumar was the first actor in indian cinema to enact a role which resembled james bond; his first such movie was jedara bale in 1968. later he acted in other bond movies such as operation jackpotnalli cid 999, goadalli cid 999, and operation diamond racket where he played roles chronicling the adventures of prakash aka agent cid 999, a james bondesque superspy. much of these films were from the director duo of dorai-bhagwan who began making spy flicks relatively late in their careers, including operation diamond racket.


=== singeredit ===
rajkumar was also a singer, who sang in many kannada movies. he won the national film award for best male playback singer in 1992 for the song "naadamaya" from the movie jeevana chaitra. it is a classical song in thodi raga.
he was trained in classical music while in gubbi veeranna's drama troupe which had a requirement for everyone to have at least a working knowledge of the classical music. he performed a song in the movie mahishasura mardini (this was picturised on narasimharaju, a comedian). however, he did not become a full-fledged singer until his song "yare koogadali" from the movie sampathige sawal in 1974. prior to this, rajkumar's songs were mostly sung by p. b. srinivas. after which, he sang in most of his movies and in many private albums, which were mainly devotional albums. his song renditions ranged from pure classical to disco and fast numbers to pathos. his fans of the days of black-and-white movies in the 1960s and 1970s, believe he was actually p. b. srinivas, who did the playback singing for most of rajkumar's movies, until rajkumar himself started to sing. p. b. srinivas continued singing for him in many of the movies in which rajkumar starred in double/triple roles.
his songs about kannadigas, kannada language and culture, such as "jenina holeyo" from chalisuva modagalu, "maanavanagi huttidmele" from jeevana chaitra and "huttidare kannada" from the film aakasmika. he sang a complete english song called "if you come today" ("tick tick tick") in one of his bond films   operation diamond racket in 1978. this song became an internet meme in india following rajkumar's demise in 2006.
in his final years, rajkumar lent his voice to a few other actors and sang many background solos. in the song kannappa kottanu, from the 1993 movie muddina maava, wherein he provided playback to the singer s. p. balasubrahmanyam, who acted in the movie. this was a rare occasion where an actor sang for a singer. kalidasa's shlokas (songs) like "maanikya veena" and ghazal based songs like "sadaa kannale", "kanneera dhaare" and "yaava kaviyu". in addition to his film work, he lent his voice for many devotional songs on hanumantha and sri raghavendra swami.


== personal lifeedit ==


=== familyedit ===
rajkumar married parvathamma, with whom he had 5 children (two daughters and three sons). two of his sons   shivrajkumar and puneet rajkumar   have become actors in the kannada film industry. his other son, raghavendra rajkumar, is an actor-turned-producer. and grandson vinay rajkumar made his debut in siddharta 


=== kannada language movementedit ===

although rajkumar rejected numerous offers to don the political mantle, he was able to influence the state's political fortunes without ever being officially in politics. however, his apolitical outlook did not prevent him from protecting and espousing the cause of kannada and karnataka. he had time and again advocated the cause of seeking primacy to kannada, and hence was asked to lead a movement about making kannada a compulsory language for primary education based on the "gokak report," popularly known as gokak varadhi. he became actively involved in the movement and soon became the force behind the gokak movement. he took a rally from belgaum to bangalore and gave speeches about the importance of kannada. millions of people gathered only to have a glimpse of rajkumar and listen to his speech. the movement became such a rage that the government relented and made kannada a compulsory language of education in karnataka.


=== disciplineedit ===
rajkumar was best regarded for being a highly disciplined man in both his personal and professional lives. he practised carnatic music for an hour each in the morning and in the evening. his punctuality is another noted aspect. waking up every morning at 4, he performed yoga and pranayama, which is said to be the reason behind rajkumar's physical and mental fitness. his yoga performances can be seen in his film kaamana billu.
he was the epitome of good character in most of his films. he shunned smoking and drinking both on screen and off. to avoid setting a precedent among his fans, he made sure that the roles he accepted did not require him to smoke or drink or utter swear words, and extended this decision to real life. his dress code always consisted of simple white dhoti and shirt. he spent most of his vacations in his hometown, gajanur, near the forest area where he was later abducted.


=== abductionedit ===

on 30 july 2000, rajkumar, his son-in-law govindaraju, and two others were abducted by veerappan from the actor's palatial house at gajanur ( erode district of tamil nadu). veerappan demanded the release of his gang members who were being held in jail under a defunct anti-terrorism law. the event prompted a massive manhunt and threw the karnataka government into crisis. the supreme court of india opined that it was "unpardonable" on the part of the government of tamil nadu for not providing security to rajkumar, although they had information a year earlier that he faced a threat of being kidnapped by veerappan. the special task force (stf) set up to capture veerapan had earlier warned rajkumar against visiting the farmhouse, but his son raghavendra rajkumar later acknowledged that his father had not taken the threat seriously.
after a total of 108 days in captivity, rajkumar was released unharmed on 15 november 2000. his abduction and the manner in which his release was secured are a mystery. upon his return to bangalore, he knelt down in front of the helicopter with his hands folded and paid respect to the karnataka soil highlighting his kannada pride.
according to the outlook magazine, there are many uncomfortable questions on the role played by the granite lobby in the whole kidnap and release of dr. raj. the granite mafia had links with veerappan in the mm hills region, and souring ties between them is said to have led to the abduction of dr. raj. added to this mystery was the supposed links of dr. raj's son appu with the granite lobby. according to officers of the department of mines and geology, karnataka, puneet's name came up in 1995, when a raid was done on illegal quarries by the kanakapura police. then the minister for mines and geology m d jayaram, of the h d deve gowda government had announced in the karnataka assembly, that puneet was one of the many people who were raided. according to a congress mla, the matter was hushed up due to pressure exerted by the influential family. according to sources, puneet owed the granite lobby 30-40 lakhs. these allegations were however denied by appu.


=== deathedit ===
rajkumar died at his home in sadashivanagar, bangalore on 12 april 2006 following a cardiac arrest. as per his wishes, his eyes were donated to 2 people the next day.
the karnataka government announced its intention to make a  100 million memorial in memory of rajkumar at kanteerava studios. after rajkumar's demise, as a tribute and remembrance his fans have unveiled more than 50 statues of rajkumar, spread across bangalore city.


=== riots following deathedit ===
his death precipitated a statewide reaction. following the news of his death, there was major unrest in the city of bangalore. the then chief minister, h. d. kumaraswamy, later claimed that the violence was instigated by vested political interests. however the opposition blamed it on lack of timely arrangements by responsible organisations. an unofficial bandh (closure of all shops and other establishments) was announced. more than 1000 vehicles were burnt and eight people were killed in police firing. several people attempted suicide after hearing of rajkumar's death; most of them were rescued. around two million people followed his remains. some of the unrest was caught on film during the "outsourcing" episode of the morgan spurlock show 30 days.
his death sparked large violence in bangalore, with violent fans resorting to stone throwing and arson. the suburbs mainly affected were bellary road, magadi road, sadashivanagar, and the kanteerava indoor stadium. the violence led to nearly 25 police personnel being injured, ob vans of private media channels and reporters being attacked, petrol bunk near hudson circle being burnt, etc. stones and bottles were thrown on building and vehicles by the grieving fans. in order to prevent attacks, vehicle drivers put up posters of rajkumar on their windscreens. the violence resulted in the death of 8 people, including a policeman (manjunath malladi (28)) who was lynched to death by the unruly mob. hundreds of vehicles were damaged, including 20 police vehicles. about $40m losses were reported by software companies, as they had to shut down operations. the bangalore police arrested nearly 742 people for rioting, with most being identified from news footage and video clippings. further the violence and police action resulted in more than 100 people being injured, which included many police personnel. 3 petrol bunks were set on fire, 4 cinema halls burnt, 25 trucks parked in the devraj urs terminal were destroyed. the yeshwanthpur police station and the office of the deputy commissioner of police (north) office, which were located on the funeral procession path were completely ransacked with police vehicles set on fire. the body which was kept at the kanteerava stadium for public viewing was moved at 12.30pm to the kanteerava film studios for final rites, and the fans who had been waiting in line to pay respects and were denied a chance resorted to violence. the funeral procession itself was marred with violence, with fans trying to forcibly barge in.
the funeral procession covered k.r. circle, palace road, t. chowdiah road, cauvery theatre junction, sadashivnagar, yeshwantapur and goraguntepalya, before reaching kanteerva studios. the fans stopped the cortege, and was allowed to proceed further after much pleading by rajkumar's sons. as a result of the violence, the cm h d kumaraswamy and then deputy cm yediyurappa could not make it for the final rites. parvathamma rajkumar was also anguished as she was unable to see her husband's body for the last time because of the chaos.


== filmographyedit ==


== biography: the book "bangarada manushya"edit ==
the book bangarada manushya, the chronicle of rajkumar, is written by a. n. prahlada rao and was first released in 2005 in the presence of rajkumar himself and ran into four editions. baraguru ramachandrappa called him as "bevarina manushya" (successful because of his hardwork and dedication). besides recording his biography, it also explores his role of a singing star, and includes photographs from his films and other achievements. the book has been translated into english by literary critic c.n. ramachandran and journalist alladi jayashri and is titled as "dr. rajkumar: the inimitable actor with a golden voice" and released by the actor's wife parvathamma rajkumar in may 2008 at bangalore. to mark the completion of 75 years of kannada film industry, the book was released in new jersey, united states on 10 may 2008. another book prana padaka written by a.n.prahlada rao, about rajakumar, the kannada matnee idol. the book contains the some of the exciting incidents as recalling by smt. parvathamma rajakumar. the book was released on 7 october 2013 by vijayakumar, president, karnataka film chamber of commerce and k.s.l.swamy, the senior kannada film director and producer.


== awards and honoursedit ==
rajkumar was awarded numerous state and national awards. he was a recipient of the padma bhushan award, a doctorate from mysore university, and the karnataka ratna, the highest civilian honour of the state of karnataka, recognising him as a "jewel of karnataka" in 1995 he received the prestigious dadasaheb phalke award for his outstanding contributions to the kannada film industry. in 2011, during the 83rd birth anniversary of rajkumar, the chief minister of karnataka announced that the state government is recommending rajkumar for a bharat ratna, the highest civilian award of the country for his outstanding contribution to the film industry.


=== national film awardsedit ===
1963   president medal for best actor, santha tukarama
1992   best male playback singer for the song "naadamaya ee lokavella" from the movie jeevana chaitra
1995   dadasaheb phalke award
2002   ntr national award 


=== filmfare awards southedit ===
rajkumar is an ten time winner of south filmfare awards in the best actor category(a record which was later levelled by kamal haasan and mammootty). some of the films for which he received best actor awards include:
mayor muthanna in 1969
sri krishnadevaraya in 1970
kasturi nivasa in 1971
gandhada gudi in 1973
mayura in 1975
sanadhi appanna in 1977
shankar guru in 1978
keralida simha in 1981
dhruva thare   1985
aakasmika in 1993
lifetime achievement award   1993.
total of 10 filmfare awards for best actor category.


==== karnataka state film awardsedit ====
total tally of 13 (9 for best actor, 2 for best singer, 1 lifetime achievement)
best actor
1967-68 - bangarada hoovu
1970-71 - kula gowrava
1974-75 - bhaktha kumbara
1976-77 - babruvahana
1981-82 - hosa belaku
1982-83 - halu jenu
1988-89 - devatha manushya
1992-93 - jeevana chaithra
1993-94 - odahuttidavaru
best singer
1993-94 - aakasmika
1994-95 - thayi illada thavaru - arishina kunkuma


=== other awards and honoursedit ===
honorary doctorate from the mysore university in 1976
postal stamp and gold coins having the actor's face issued in 2009 by the honourable central government of india.
more than 1100 statues of rajkumar are present all over karnataka. recently a statue of the actor in mayura touch(a movie in which he had acted in 1975)had been inaugurated in kurubarahalli, bangalore with a total cost of above 10 million rupees.
the nadoja award (an honorary doctorate) from hampi university in 1999
nine karnataka state film awards in the best actor category
two karnataka state film awards in the best playback singer category
padma bhushan award in 1983
etv kannadiga of the year award in 2003
karnataka ratna in 1992 and "nata saarvabhowma" (the emperor of acting) in 1967 by the government of karnataka.
kentucky colonel (honorable order of kentucky colonels) honorary title by the governor of kentucky, u.s in 1985.
a 6-kilometre (3.7 mi) road has been named "dr. rajkumar road" after rajkumar. the road stretches from government soap factory in yeshwanthpur to prasanna theater, magadi road in bangalore.


=== sarthaka suvarnaedit ===
in july 2005, the government of karnataka honored rajkumar for his 50 years of service to the kannada film industry at the bangalore palace in a ceremony called sarthaka suvarna. the felicitation ceremony was attended by the entire kannada film industry as a mark of respect and tribute to the legend. the felicitation ceremony, arranged by the government led by n. dharam singh, was a success.


== memorialedit ==
at kanteerava studios, the karnataka government is setting up a memorial for rajkumar at an estimated cost of  100 million. the blueprint of the memorial was constituted by a panel comprising rajkumar's family members, representatives of the kannada film industry and the state government.
a permanent exhibition on the history of the kannada film industry and rajkumar's movies will be an integral part of the memorial. in respect of rajkumar's prolonged association with the studio, the actor's trophies and souvenirs will be put up for exhibition at the memorial. it will also have a stock of movies, dialogue, scripts, songs and other memorabilia associated with the actor. the studio, located in nandini layout in the northern part of bangalore, has become a pilgrim and tourist spot since rajkumar's death, with thousands of fans coming to pay homage to his memory. a calendar is released every year containing rare photographs of rajkumar and stills from his popular films. the inauguration of the dr rajkumar memorial on november 29 in presence of rajinikanth, chiranjeevi


== see alsoedit ==
rajkumar filmography
cinema of karnataka


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
rajkumar at the internet movie database

sir jagadish chandra bose, csi, cie, frs (/bo s/; bengali pronunciation: [d  god i  t  nd ro bosu]; 30 november 1858   23 november 1937) was a bengali polymath, physicist, biologist, biophysicist, botanist, archaeologist, as well as an early writer of science fiction. he pioneered the investigation of radio and microwave optics, made very significant contributions to plant science, and laid the foundations of experimental science in the indian subcontinent. ieee named him one of the fathers of radio science. he is also considered the father of bengali science fiction. he also invented the crescograph. a crater on the moon has been named in his honour.
born in mymensingh, bengal presidency during the british raj, bose graduated from st. xavier's college, calcutta. he then went to the university of london to study medicine, but could not pursue studies in medicine because of health problems. instead, he conducted his research with the nobel laureate lord rayleigh at cambridge and returned to india. he then joined the presidency college of university of calcutta as a professor of physics. there, despite racial discrimination and a lack of funding and equipment, bose carried on his scientific research. he made remarkable progress in his research of remote wireless signalling and was the first to use semiconductor junctions to detect radio signals. however, instead of trying to gain commercial benefit from this invention, bose made his inventions public in order to allow others to further develop his research.
bose subsequently made a number of pioneering discoveries in plant physiology. he used his own invention, the crescograph, to measure plant response to various stimuli, and thereby scientifically proved parallelism between animal and plant tissues. although bose filed for a patent for one of his inventions because of peer pressure, his reluctance to any form of patenting was well known. to facilitate his research, he constructed automatic recorders capable of registering extremely slight movements; these instruments produced some striking results, such as bose's demonstration of an apparent power of feeling in plants, exemplified by the quivering of injured plants. his books include response in the living and non-living (1902) and the nervous mechanism of plants (1926).


== early life and education ==

sir jagadish chandra bose was born in mymensingh, bengal presidency, (present day bangladesh) on 30 november 1858. his father, bhagawan chandra bose, was a brahmo and leader of the brahmo samaj and worked as a deputy magistrate/ assistant commissioner in faridpur, bardhaman and other places.
bose's education started in a vernacular school, because his father believed that one must know one's own mother tongue before beginning english, and that one should know also one's own people. speaking at the bikrampur conference in 1915, bose said:
 at that time, sending children to english schools was an aristocratic status symbol. in the vernacular school, to which i was sent, the son of the muslim attendant of my father sat on my right side, and the son of a fisherman sat on my left. they were my playmates. i listened spellbound to their stories of birds, animals and aquatic creatures. perhaps these stories created in my mind a keen interest in investigating the workings of nature. when i returned home from school accompanied by my school fellows, my mother welcomed and fed all of us without discrimination. although she was an orthodox old-fashioned lady, she never considered herself guilty of impiety by treating these  untouchables  as her own children. it was because of my childhood friendship with them that i could never feel that there were  creatures  who might be labelled  low-caste . i never realised that there existed a  problem  common to the two communities, hindus and muslims. 
bose joined the hare school in 1869 and then st. xavier's school at kolkata. in 1875, he passed the entrance examination (equivalent to school graduation) of university of calcutta and was admitted to st. xavier's college, calcutta. at st. xavier's, bose came in contact with jesuit father eugene lafont, who played a significant role in developing his interest to natural science. he received a bachelor's degree from university of calcutta in 1879.
bose wanted to go to england to compete for the indian civil service. however, his father, a civil servant himself, cancelled the plan. he wished his son to be a scholar, who would  rule nobody but himself.  bose went to england to study medicine at the university of london. however, he had to quit because of ill health. the odour in the dissection rooms is also said to have exacerbated his illness.
through the recommendation of anandamohan bose, his brother-in-law (sister's husband) and the first indian wrangler, he secured admission in christ's college, cambridge to study natural science. he received the natural science tripos from the university of cambridge and a bsc from the university of london in 1884. among bose's teachers at cambridge were lord rayleigh, michael foster, james dewar, francis darwin, francis balfour, and sidney vines. at the time when bose was a student at cambridge, prafulla chandra roy was a student at edinburgh. they met in london and became intimate friends. later he was married to abala bose, the renowned feminist, and social worker.
on the second day of a two-day seminar held on the occasion of 150th anniversary of jagadish chandra bose on 28 29 july at the asiatic society, kolkata professor shibaji raha, director of the bose institute, kolkata told in his valedictory address that he had personally checked the register of the cambridge university to confirm the fact that in addition to tripos he received an ma as well from it in 1884.


== joining presidency college ==

bose returned to india in 1885, carrying a letter from fawcett, the economist to lord ripon, viceroy of india. on lord ripon's request, sir alfred croft, the director of public instruction, appointed bose officiating professor of physics in presidency college. the principal, c. h. tawney, protested against the appointment but had to accept it.
bose was not provided with facilities for research. on the contrary, he was a 'victim of racialism' with regard to his salary. in those days, an indian professor was paid rs. 200 per month, while his european counterpart received rs. 300 per month. since bose was officiating, he was offered a salary of only rs. 100 per month. as a form of protest, bose refused to accept the salary cheque and continued his teaching assignment for three years without accepting any salary. after time, the director of public instruction and the principal of the presidency college relented, and bose's appointment was made permanent with retrospective effect. he was given the full salary for the previous three years in a lump sum.
presidency college lacked a proper laboratory. bose had to conduct his research in a small 24-square-foot (2.2 m2) room. he devised equipment for the research with the help of one untrained tinsmith. sister nivedita wrote, "i was horrified to find the way in which a great worker could be subjected to continuous annoyance and petty difficulties ... the college routine was made as arduous as possible for him, so that he could not have the time he needed for investigation." after his daily grind, he carried out his research far into the night, in a small room in his college.
moreover, the policy of the british government for its colonies was not conducive to attempts at original research. bose spent his own money for making experimental equipment. within a decade of his joining presidency college, he emerged a pioneer in the incipient research field of wireless waves.


== radio research ==

the scottish theoretical physicist james clerk maxwell mathematically predicted the existence of electromagnetic radiation of diverse wavelengths, but he died in 1879 before his prediction was experimentally verified. between 1886 and 1888 german physicist heinrich hertz published the results of his experiments that showed the existence of electromagnetic waves in free space. subsequently, british physicist oliver lodge, who had also been researching electromagnetic, conducted a commemorative lecture in august 1894 (after hertz's death) on the quasi optical nature of "hertzian waves" (radio waves) and demonstrated their similarity to light and vision including reflection and transmission at distances up to 50 meters. lodge's work was published it in book form and caught the attention of scientists in different countries including bose in india.
the first remarkable aspect of bose's follow up microwave research was that he reduced the waves to the millimetre level (about 5 mm wavelength). he realised the disadvantages of long waves for studying their light-like properties.
during a november 1894 (or 1895) public demonstration at town hall of kolkata, bose ignited gunpowder and rang a bell at a distance using millimetre range wavelength microwaves. lieutenant governor sir william mackenzie witnessed bose's demonstration in the kolkata town hall. bose wrote in a bengali essay, adrisya alok (invisible light), "the invisible light can easily pass through brick walls, buildings etc. therefore, messages can be transmitted by means of it without the mediation of wires."
bose's first scientific paper, "on polarisation of electric rays by double-refracting crystals" was communicated to the asiatic society of bengal in may 1895, within a year of lodge's paper. his second paper was communicated to the royal society of london by lord rayleigh in october 1895. in december 1895, the london journal the electrician (vol. 36) published bose's paper, "on a new electro-polariscope". at that time, the word 'coherer', coined by lodge, was used in the english-speaking world for hertzian wave receivers or detectors. the electrician readily commented on bose's coherer. (december 1895). the englishman (18 january 1896) quoted from the electrician and commented as follows:
 should professor bose succeed in perfecting and patenting his  coherer , we may in time see the whole system of coast lighting throughout the navigable world revolutionised by a bengali scientist working single handed in our presidency college laboratory. 
bose planned to "perfect his coherer" but never thought of patenting it.

bose went to london on a lecture tour in 1896 and met italian inventor guglielmo marconi, who had been developing a radio wave wireless telegraphy system for over a year and was trying to market it to the british post service. in an interview, bose expressed disinterest in commercial telegraphy and suggested others use his research work. in 1899, bose announced the development of a "iron-mercury-iron coherer with telephone detector" in a paper presented at the royal society, london.


=== place in radio development ===
bose conducted his experiments during the years that saw the development of radio into a communication medium. bose work in radio microwave optics was not related to radio communication but his refinements and writings may have had an influence on other radio inventors. during this same period from late 1894 on guglielmo marconi was working on a radio system specifically designed for wireless telegraphy and by early 1896 was transmitting radio far beyond the short ranges that had been predicted by physics. in may 1895 russian physicist alexander stepanovich popov, also inspired by lodges experiment, built a radio wave base lightning detector but did not pursue signalling until later.
bose was the first to use a semiconductor junction to detect radio waves, and he invented various now commonplace microwave components. in 1954, pearson and brattain gave priority to bose for the use of a semi-conducting crystal as a detector of radio waves. further work at millimetre wavelengths was almost non-existent for nearly 50 years. in 1897, bose described to the royal institution in london his research carried out in kolkata at millimetre wavelengths. he used waveguides, horn antennas, dielectric lenses, various polarisers and even semiconductors at frequencies as high as 60 ghz; much of his original equipment is still in existence, now at the bose institute in kolkata. a 1.3 mm multi-beam receiver now in use on the nrao 12 metre telescope, arizona, us, incorporates concepts from his original 1897 papers.
sir nevill mott, nobel laureate in 1977 for his own contributions to solid-state electronics, remarked that "j.c. bose was at least 60 years ahead of his time. in fact, he had anticipated the existence of p-type and n-type semiconductors."


== plant research ==

his major contribution in the field of biophysics was the demonstration of the electrical nature of the conduction of various stimuli (e.g., wounds, chemical agents) in plants, which were earlier thought to be of a chemical nature. these claims were later proven experimentally. he was also the first to study the action of microwaves in plant tissues and corresponding changes in the cell membrane potential. he researched the mechanism of the seasonal effect on plants, the effect of chemical inhibitors on plant stimuli and the effect of temperature. from the analysis of the variation of the cell membrane potential of plants under different circumstances, he hypothesised that plants can "feel pain, understand affection etc."


== study of metal fatigue and cell response ==
bose performed a comparative study of the fatigue response of various metals and organic tissue in plants. he subjected metals to a combination of mechanical, thermal, chemical, and electrical stimuli and noted the similarities between metals and cells. bose's experiments demonstrated a cyclical fatigue response in both stimulated cells and metals, as well as a distinctive cyclical fatigue and recovery response across multiple types of stimuli in both living cells and metals.
bose documented a characteristic electrical response curve of plant cells to electrical stimulus, as well as the decrease and eventual absence of this response in plants treated with anaesthetics or poison. the response was also absent in zinc treated with oxalic acid. he noted a similarity in reduction of elasticity between cooled metal wires and organic cells, as well as an impact on the recovery cycle period of the metal.


== science fiction ==
in 1896, bose wrote niruddesher kahini (the story of the missing one), a short story that was later expanded and added to abyakta (       ) collection in 1921 with the new title palatak tuphan (runaway cyclone). it was one of the first works of bengali science fiction. it has been translated into english by bodhisattva chattopadhyay.


== bose and patents ==
the inventor of "wireless telecommunications", bose was not interested in patenting his invention. in his friday evening discourse at the royal institution, london, he made public his construction of the coherer. thus the electric engineer expressed "surprise that no secret was at any time made as to its construction, so that it has been open to all the world to adopt it for practical and possibly moneymaking purposes." bose declined an offer from a wireless apparatus manufacturer for signing a remunerative agreement. bose also recorded his attitude towards patents in his inaugural lecture at the foundation of the bose institute on 30 november 1917.


== legacy ==

bose's place in history has now been re-evaluated, and he is credited with the invention of the first wireless detection device and the discovery of millimetre length electromagnetic waves and considered a pioneer in the field of biophysics.
many of his instruments are still on display and remain largely usable now, over 100 years later. they include various antennas, polarisers, and waveguides, which remain in use in modern forms today.
to commemorate his birth centenary in 1958, the jbnsts scholarship programme was started in west bengal. in the same year, india issued a postage stamp bearing his portrait.
on 14 september 2012, bose's experimental work in millimetre-band radio was recognised as an ieee milestone in electrical and computer engineering, the first such recognition of a discovery in india.


== publications ==

journals
nature published about 27 papers.
bose j.c. (1902). "on elektromotive wave accompanying mechanical disturbance in metals in contact with electrolyte". proc. roy. soc. 70 (459 466): 273 294. doi:10.1098/rspl.1902.0029. 
bose j.c. (1902). "sur la response electrique de la matiere vivante et animee soumise   une excitation. deux proceeds d'observation de la reponse de la matiere vivante". journal de physique 4 (1): 481 491. 
books
response in the living and non-living, 1902
plant response as a means of physiological investigation, 1906
comparative electro-physiology: a physico-physiological study, 1907
researches on irritability of plants, 1913
physiology of the ascent of sap, 1923
the physiology of photosynthesis, 1924
the nervous mechanisms of plants, 1926
plant autographs and their revelations, 1927
growth and tropic movements of plants, 1929
motor mechanism of plants, 1928
other
j.c. bose, collected physical papers. new york, n.y.: longmans, green and co., 1927
abyakta (bengali), 1922


== honours ==
companion of the order of the indian empire (cie, 1903)
companion of the order of the star of india (csi, 1912)
knight bachelor (1917)
fellow of the royal society (frs, 1920)
member of the vienna academy of sciences, 1928
president of the 14th session of the indian science congress in 1927.
member of finnish society of sciences and letters in 1929.
member of the league of nations' committee for intellectual cooperation
founding fellow of the national institute of sciences of india (now the indian national science academy)
the indian botanic garden was renamed as the acharya jagadish chandra bose indian botanic garden on 25 june 2009 in honour of jagadish chandra bose.


== notes ==


== references ==
mukherji, visvapriya, jagadish chandra bose, second edition, 1994, builders of modern india series, publications division, ministry of information and broadcasting, government of india, isbn 81-230-0047-2.


== further reading ==
geddes, patrick (1920). the life and work of sir jagadis c. bose. london: longmans. retrieved 14 february 2014. 
pearson g.l., brattain w.h. (1955). "history of semiconductor research". proc. ire 43 (12): 1794 1806. doi:10.1109/jrproc.1955.278042. 
j.m. payne & p.r. jewell, "the upgrade of the nrao 8-beam receiver," in multi-feed systems for radio telescopes, d.t. emerson & j.m. payne, eds. san francisco: asp conference series, 1995, vol. 75, p. 144
fleming, j. a. (1908). the principles of electric wave telegraphy. london: new york and.
yogananda, paramhansa (1946). "india's great scientist, j.c. bose". autobiography of a yogi (1st ed.). new york: philosophical library. pp. 65 74. 


== external links ==
bose institute website
biography at calcuttaweb
sir jagadish chandra bose: the unsung hero of radio communication at web.mit.edu j. c. bose, the unsung hero of radio communication
jc bose: 60 ghz in the 1890s
jeffrey mervis and pallava bagla (1998). "bose credited with key role in marconi's radio breakthrough". science 279 (5350): 476. bibcode:1998sci...279..476m. doi:10.1126/science.279.5350.476.  science magazine on bose priority
ieeeghn: jagadish chandra bose at www.ieeeghn.org
ecit bose article at www.infinityfoundation.com
insa publication
radio history
vigyan prasar article
frontline article
india's great scientist, j. c. bose
acharya jagadis chandra bose at www.vigyanprasar.gov.in
works by jagadis chandra bose at project gutenberg
sir jagadis chunder bose by sir jagadis chunder bose at project gutenberg (project gutenberg)
response in the living and non-living by jagadis chandra bose at project gutenberg (project gutenberg)
works by or about jagadish chandra bose at internet archive
jagadish chandra bose materials in the south asian american digital archive (saada)
entry on bangla science fiction by bodhisattva chattopadhyay in the science fiction encyclopedia

aamir khan (pronounced [ a m r  xa n]; born mohammed aamir hussain khan on 14 march 1965) is an indian film actor, director, producer, television personality, social worker, screenwriter and philanthropist. through his successful career in hindi films, khan has established himself as one of the most popular and influential actors of indian cinema. he is the recipient of numerous awards, including four national film awards and seven filmfare awards. he was honoured by the government of india with the padma shri in 2003 and the padma bhushan in 2010.
khan first appeared on screen as a child actor in his uncle nasir hussain's film yaadon ki baaraat (1973). his first feature film role came with the experimental film holi (1984), and he began a full-time acting career with a leading role in the highly successful tragic romance qayamat se qayamat tak (1988). his performance in the film and in the thriller raakh (1989) earned him a special jury award at the national film award ceremony. he established himself as a leading actor of hindi cinema in the 1990s by appearing in several commercially successful films, including the romantic drama dil (1990), the romance raja hindustani (1996), for which he won his first filmfare award for best actor, and the drama sarfarosh (1999). he was also noted for playing against type in the critically acclaimed canadian-indian film earth (1998).
in 2001, khan started a production company, whose first release, lagaan, was nominated for the academy award for best foreign language film and earned him a national film award for best popular film and two more filmfare awards (best actor and best film). after a four-year absence from the screen, khan continued to portray leading roles, most notably in the 2006 box-office hits fanaa and rang de basanti. the following year, he made his directorial debut with taare zameen par, a major success that garnered him the filmfare awards for best film and best director. khan's greatest commercial successes came with the thriller ghajini (2008), the comedy-drama 3 idiots (2009), the adventure film dhoom 3 (2013), and the satire pk (2014), all of which held records for being the highest-grossing bollywood film of all time.
in addition to acting, khan is a humanitarian and has participated and spoken out for various social causes, some of which have sparked political controversy. he has created, and featured as the host of the television talk show satyamev jayate through which he highlights sensitive social issues in india. khan was married to his first wife, reena dutta, for fifteen years after which he married the film director kiran rao. he has three children two with dutta, and one with rao through surrogacy.


== early life and backgroundedit ==
khan was born on 14 march 1965 in mumbai to tahir hussain, a film producer, and zeenat hussain. several of his relatives were members of the hindi film industry, including his late paternal uncle, the producer-director nasir hussain. he is related to the indian philosopher abul kalam azad who is related to him through his grandmother. khan is the eldest of four siblings; he has a brother, the actor faisal khan, and two sisters, farhat and nikhat khan. his nephew, imran khan, is a contemporary hindi film actor.
as a child, khan appeared on screen in two minor roles. at the age of eight, he appeared in a highly popular song in the nasir hussain-directed musical film yaadon ki baaraat (1973). the following year, he portrayed the younger version of mahendra sandhu's character in his father's production madhosh. khan attended j.b. petit school for his pre-primary education, later switching to st. anne's high school, bandra till the eight grade, and completed his ninth and tenth grade at the bombay scottish school, mahim. he played tennis in state level championships, and has professed being "much more into sports than studies". he completed his twelfth grade from mumbai's narsee monjee college. khan described his childhood as "tough" due to the financial problems faced by his father whose film productions were mostly unsuccessful; he said, "there would be at least 30 calls a day from creditors calling for their money" and he was always at risk of being expelled from school for non-payment of fees.
at the age of sixteen, khan was involved in the experimental process of making a 40-minute silent film, entitled paranoia, that was directed by his school friend aditya bhattacharya. the film was funded by the filmmaker shriram lagoo, an acquaintance of bhattacharya, who provided them with a few thousand rupees. khan's parents opposed to his joining films due to their own experiences, wishing that he would instead pursue a "steady" career of an engineer or doctor, and thus the shooting schedule of paranoia was a clandestine one. in the film, he played the lead role alongside actors neena gupta and victor banerjee, while simultaneously assisting bhattacharya. he said that the experience of working on it encouraged him to pursue a career in film.
khan subsequently joined a theatre group called avantar, where he performed backstage activities for over a year. he made his stage debut with a small role in the company's gujarati play, kesar bina, at prithvi theatre. he went on to two of their hindi plays, and one english play, which was titled clearing house. after completing his high-school education khan decided to discontinue studying, despite the objection of his parents, choosing instead to work as an assistant director to nasir hussain on two hindi films manzil manzil (1984) and zabardast (1985).


== careeredit ==


=== actoredit ===


==== early careeredit ====
in addition to assisting hussain, khan acted in documentaries directed by the students of ftii, pune. the director ketan mehta noticed khan in those films, and he offered him a role in the low-budget experimental film holi (1984). featuring an ensemble cast of newcomers, holi was based on a play by mahesh elkunchwar, and dealt with the practice of ragging in india. the new york times published that the film was "melodramatic" but "very decently and exuberantly performed by the nonprofessional actors". khan's role was that of a rowdy college student, an "insignificant" role, that was described by cnn-ibn as "lack[ing] in finesse". holi failed to garner a broad audience, but nasir hussain and his son mansoor signed him as the leading man in mansoor's directorial debut qayamat se qayamat tak (1988) alongside juhi chawla. the film was a tale of unrequited love and parental opposition based on the shakespearean tragedy of romeo and juliet, with khan portraying raj, a "clean-cut, wholesome boy-next-door". qayamat se qayamat tak proved to be a major commercial success, catapulting both khan and chawla to stardom. it was awarded seven filmfare awards including a best male debut trophy for khan. the film has since attained cult status, with the entertainment portal bollywood hungama crediting it as a "path-breaking and trend setting film" for indian cinema.
the year 1989 saw the release of raakh, a crime thriller from aditya bhattacharya that was filmed before the production of qayamat se qayamat tak. the film tells the story of a young man avenging the rape of his ex-girlfriend (played by supriya pathak). despite a poor reception at the box-office, the film was critically acclaimed. khan was awarded a national film award   special jury award / special mention for his performances in both qayamat se qayamat tak and raakh. later that year he reunited with chawla for the romantic comedy love love love, a commercial failure.
khan had five film releases in 1990. he found no success in the sport film awwal number, the mythological thriller tum mere ho, the romance deewana mujh sa nahin and the social drama jawani zindabad. however, the indra kumar-directed romantic drama dil (opposite madhuri dixit) was a major success. a tale of parental opposition to teenage love, dil was highly popular among the youth, and emerged as the highest-grossing hindi film of the year. he followed this success with a leading role alongside pooja bhatt in the romantic comedy dil hai ke manta nahin (1991), a remake of the hollywood film it happened one night (1934), which proved to be a box office hit.
after that, he went on to appear in several other films in the late '80s and early '90s: jo jeeta wohi sikandar (1992), hum hain rahi pyar ke (1993) (for which he also wrote the screenplay), and rangeela (1995). most of these films were successful critically and commercially. other successes include andaz apna apna, co-starring salman khan. at the time of its release the movie was reviewed unfavorably by critics, but over the years has gained cult status.


==== back-to-back successedit ====
khan continued to act in just one or two films a year, then an unusual trait for a mainstream hindi cinema actor. his only release in 1996 was the dharmesh darshan directed commercial blockbuster raja hindustani in which he was paired opposite karisma kapoor. the film earned him his first filmfare best actor award, after seven previous nominations, and went on to become the biggest hit of the year, as well as the third-highest grossing indian film of the 1990s. khan's career had seemed to hit a plateau at this point of time, and most of the films to follow for the next few years were only partially successful. in 1997, he co-starred alongside ajay devgn, kajol and juhi chawla in ishq, which performed well at the box office. the following year, khan appeared in the moderately successful ghulam, for which he also did playback singing. john mathew matthan's sarfarosh (1999), khan's first release in 1999, was also moderately successful, gaining an above average box office verdict. the film and khan's role in it were highly appreciated by movie critics, as was his role in deepa mehta's art house film earth. his first release for the new millennium, mela, in which he acted alongside his real-life brother faisal khan, was both a box-office and critical bomb.
in 2001 he appeared in lagaan. the film was a major critical and commercial success, and received a nomination for best foreign language film at the 74th academy awards. additionally, the film gathered critical acclaim at several international film festivals, in addition to winning numerous indian awards, including the national film awards. khan himself won his second filmfare best actor award.
the success of lagaan was followed by dil chahta hai later that year, in which khan co-starred with saif ali khan and akshaye khanna, with preity zinta playing his love interest. the film was written and directed by the then newcomer farhan akhtar.
khan then took a four-year break citing personal problems, and returned in 2005 with ketan mehta's mangal pandey: the rising playing the title role of the real-life sepoy and martyr who helped spark the indian rebellion of 1857.
rakeysh omprakash mehra's award-winning rang de basanti was khan's first release in 2006. his performance was critically acclaimed, earning him a filmfare critics award for best actor and various nominations for best actor. the film went on to become one of the highest grossing films of the year, and was selected as india's official entry to the oscars. although the film was not shortlisted as a nominee for the oscar, it received a nomination for best foreign film at the bafta awards in england. khan's work in his next movie, fanaa (2006), co-starred with kajol, was also appreciated, and the film went on to become one of the highest grossing indian films of 2006.
his 2007 film, taare zameen par was also produced by him and marked his directorial debut. the film, which was the second offering from aamir khan productions, starred khan in a supporting role as a teacher who befriends and helps a dyslexic child. it opened to excellent responses from critics and audiences alike. khan's performance was well-received, although he was particularly applauded for his directing.


==== blockbuster filmsedit ====
in 2008, khan appeared in the movie ghajini. the film was a major commercial success and became the highest grossing bollywood movie of that year. for his performance in the film, khan received several best actor nominations at various award ceremonies as well as his fifteenth filmfare best actor nomination.
in 2009, khan appeared in the commercially and critically acclaimed film 3 idiots as ranchodas chanchad. 3 idiots became the highest-grossing bollywood film of all time in india at that time, breaking the previous record set by ghajini which also starred aamir khan.3 idiots also became one of the few indian films to become a major success in east asian markets such as china, eventually bringing its overseas total to us$25 million the highest-grossing bollywood film of all time in overseas markets. it was expected to be the first indian film to be officially released on youtube, within 12 weeks of releasing in theatres on 25 march 2010, but finally got officially released on youtube in may 2012. the film also went on to win many awards, winning six filmfare awards including best film and best director, ten star screen awards and sixteen iifa awards
there was speculation that khan had disagreements with director reema kagti over the tone of his 2012 film talaash, causing significant delays in the film release. however, khan said that the claims were baseless. the film was released and was a hit.
khan's next venture was dhoom 3 with yash raj films. he has considered this to be the most difficult role of his career to date. the film was released worldwide on 20 december 2013. box office india declared dhoom 3 "the biggest hit of 2013" after two days of release, with the film grossing  2 billion (us$30 million) worldwide in three days and  4 billion (us$60 million) worldwide in ten days, making it the highest-grossing bollywood film of all time.
in 2014, khan appeared as the eponymous alien in rajkumar hirani's comedy-drama pk. it also starred anushka sharma, sushant singh rajput, boman irani and sanjay dutt in pivotal roles. the film received critical acclaim and emerged as the highest grossing bollywood film of all time (the fourth time khan achieved this feat). khan's performance was unanimously praised by critics. raja sen called the film a "triumph" and said: "aamir khan is exceptional in pk, creating an irresistibly goofy character and playing him with absolute conviction."


=== film production and directionedit ===

in 2001 khan set up a production company known as aamir khan productions. its first film was lagaan. the movie was released in 2001, starring khan as the lead actor. the film was selected as india's official entry to the 74th academy awards in the best foreign language film category. it was eventually chosen and nominated in that category but lost to no man's land. the film won numerous awards at several indian award functions such as filmfare and iifa, and won the national film award for most popular film, an award shared between khan and the film's director, ashutosh gowariker. khan later commented on the loss of lagaan at the oscars: "certainly we were disappointed. but the thing that really kept us in our spirits was that the entire country was behind us".
for producing the documentary, madness in the desert, on the making of lagaan, khan and director satyajit bhatkal were awarded the national film award for best exploration/adventure film at the 51st national film awards ceremony.
in 2007 he produced the drama taare zameen par which marked his directorial debut. khan also played a supporting role in the film, sharing the screen with the debut of child actor darsheel safary. the film was initially conceived of and developed by the husband and wife team, amole gupte and deepa bhatia. it is the story of a young child who suffers in school until a teacher identifies him as dyslexic. the movie was critically acclaimed, as well as a box office success. taare zameen par won the 2008 filmfare best movie award as well as a number of other filmfare and star screen awards. khan's work also won him the best director. in 2008, khan launched his nephew imran khan's debut in the film jaane tu... ya jaane na under his production house. the film was a big hit in india, and eventually earned khan another nomination for best movie at the filmfare.
in 2011, khan released his home production dhobi ghat. which was directed by his wife, kiran rao. in 2012, khan starred in reema kagti's neo-noir mystery film, talaash which was joint production by excel entertainment and aamir khan productions. the film was eventually declared a semi-hit in india and accumulated a worldwide gross of  1.74 billion (us$26 million).


=== televisionedit ===
around august 2011, khan started talks with siddhartha basu's big synergy, to host a talk show, similar to the oprah winfrey show.
khan made his television debut with his social issue based talk show satyamev jayte which started airing on 6 may 2012. aamir was paid rs. 30 million rupees per episode to host the satyamev jayate, and it makes him the highest paid host in indian television industry (as on june 2012). aamir, speaking on a radio channel, said that in view of phenomenal public response he may come up with a second season of the show. the show went live simultaneously on star plus, star world and national broadcaster doordarshan on the 11 am sunday slot in eight languages, being the first to do so in india.
satyamev jayte opened to positive reviews and feedback from eminent personalities such as social activists, media houses, doctors, film and television personalities. khan was also praised for his effort. in her review, ritu singh of ibn live stated that, "aamir khan deserves an applause for bringing up such a sensitive issue and presenting it in a hard hitting way. the amount of research aamir and his team has put into the show was clearly visible with the facts and figures presented. every aspect of the issue was covered with great diligence." parmita uniyal from hindustan times praised the content and khan for "step[ing] in to do what journalists are supposed to do   make a difference. the show is a classic example of that." despite the initial hype and being labelled as the channel's most ambitious project till date, the initial viewership figures were not very encouraging; the show received an average television rating of 2.9 (with a reach of 14.4 million, it was watched by only 20% of tv viewers) in the six metros in its debut episode on 6 may. the rating was far lower than those of most other celebrity-hosted shows at the time.
khan made to cover page of time magazine asia edition in september 2012 issue with title "khan's quest"   "he is breaking the bollywood mold by tackling india's social evils. can an actor change a nation?"


== humanitarian and political causesedit ==

in april 2006, aamir participated in the demonstrations put up by the narmada bachao andolan committee with their leader medha patkar after the gujarat government's decision to raise the height of the narmada dam. he quoted to support adivasis (tribes), who might be displaced from their homes. later he faced protests and a partial ban on his film fanaa, but the prime minister of india, manmohan singh supported him by saying "everyone has the freedom of expression. if someone says something on a particular subject, that doesn't mean you should start protesting." aamir also lent his support to the janlokpal bill movement led by anna hazare in august 2011.
he has been supporting common causes; when asked about views on entertainment tax in 2012 budget aamir said, "i don't want any reduction in that, all i expect is focus on education and nutrition." he quit the goi's copyrights panels in february 2010 after facing sharp differences with other members. during the promotion of 3 idiots he journeyed to diverse parts of india, mostly to small towns, noting that "film makers from mumbai don't understand small town india." this experience of reaching out to 'regional india' was extended in his debut tv show satyamev jayate. on 16 july 2012, khan met the prime minister and the minister for social justice and empowerment and discussed the plight of manual scavengers and sought eradication of manual scavenging in the country.
on 30 november 2011, khan was appointed national brand ambassador of unicef to promote child nutrition. he is part of the government organised iec campaign to raise awareness about malnutrition.


== in the mediaedit ==
in a 2009 interview, khan states that he tends to take an independent approach to the world of filmmaking, noting that he does not "do different things; i try to do it in a different manner. i think every person should follow his/her dream and try and make it possible to create an ability to achieve it backed by its practicality." he has also indicated that he is more interested in the process of filmmaking than in the end result: "for me, the process is more important, more joyful. i would like to have my entire concentration on the process right from the first step."
khan has a reputation for shunning award ceremonies and not accepting any popular indian film awards. though nominated many times, khan has not attended any indian film award ceremony as he feels "indian film awards lack credibility". when asked about the selection procedure and authenticity of popular indian film awards, aamir khan says, "fact is that i have no objections to film awards per se. i just feel that if i don't value a particular film award, then i won't attend it either. apart from the national film awards, i don't see any other award ceremony that i should give value to. my personal experience about these award ceremonies is that i don't trust them. i have no faith in them so i would prefer to stay away."
in 2007, khan was invited to have a wax imitation of himself put on display at madame tussauds in london. however, khan declined, stating that "it's not important to me... people will see my films if they want to. also, i cannot deal with so many things, i have bandwidth only for that much."
in april 2013, he was among time magazine's list of the 100 most influential people in the world. he was honoured by the government of india with the padma shri in 2003 and the padma bhushan in 2010.
in february 2015, aamir khan lashed out at a popular online comedy group all india bakchod for its celebrity roast episode. he said  i completely believe in freedom of speech, no issues. but we have to understand that we all have a certain responsibility. when i heard what was being described to me i felt it was a violent event.  he further said violence is not just physical but it has verbal aspects to it. calling the roast a shameless act, aamir khan did not spare even his friends from the film industry karan, ranveer and arjun.


== personal lifeedit ==

khan married reena dutta, who had a small part in qayamat se qayamat tak, on 18 april 1986. they have two children, a son named junaid and a daughter, ira. reena was involved briefly in khan's career when she worked as a producer for lagaan. in december 2002, khan filed for divorce, ending the 15-year marriage. reena took custody of both children.
on 28 december 2005, khan married kiran rao who had been an assistant director to ashutosh gowariker during the filming of lagaan. on 5 december 2011, khan and his wife announced the birth of their son, azad rao khan, through a surrogate mother. in 2007, khan lost a custody battle for his younger brother faisal to their father, tahir hussain. his father died on 2 february 2010.
in march 2015, khan stated that he has quit non vegetarian food and has adopted vegan lifestyle after being inspired by his wife kiran rao.


== filmographyedit ==


== awards and honoursedit ==


== see alsoedit ==
list of indian film actors


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
aamir khan on facebook
official website
aamir khan at the internet movie database

madhuri dixit (born 15 may 1967), also known as madhuri dixit-nene after her marriage, is an indian actress who is known for her work in hindi cinema. a leading actress of bollywood in the 1980s, 1990s and early-2000s, dixit has been praised by critics for her acting and dancing skills, and achieved mass popularity due to her physical beauty. she has received six filmfare awards, four for best actress, one for best supporting actress and one special award. she has been nominated for the filmfare award for best actress a record fourteen times. she was awarded the padma shri, india's fourth-highest civilian award, by the government of india in 2008.
dixit made her film debut in abodh (1984) and received wider public recognition with tezaab (1988). she went on to establish herself as a leading actress of hindi cinema with the films ram lakhan (1989), parinda (1989), dil (1990), saajan (1991), beta (1992), khalnayak (1993), hum aapke hain koun..! (1994), raja (1995), and dil to pagal hai (1997). she also garnered critical acclaim for her work in the dramas anjaam (1994), mrityudand (1997), pukar (2000), lajja (2001) and devdas (2002). in 2002, she took a sabbatical from films to raise her children and made a comeback with the musical aaja nachle in 2007, later starring in the 2014 dramas dedh ishqiya and gulaab gang.
in addition to acting in films, dixit has featured as a talent judge for four seasons of the dance reality show jhalak dikhhla jaa. she has participated in several stage shows and has engaged in philanthropic activities. in 2014 she was appointed the unicef goodwill ambassador in india. she is married to the doctor shriram madhav nene, with whom she has two children. she also appeared in superwoman 's youtube video, "what bollywood has taught me".


== early lifeedit ==
madhuri dixit is a native of mumbai, india. she was born on 15 may 1967 in a maharashtrian family to shankar and snehlata dixit. dixit attended divine child high school and mumbai university and studied to be a microbiologist. she always desired dance since the age of 3 and went on to practice the art of kathak and later on to become a trained professional kathak dancer.


== film careeredit ==


=== 1984 89: early roles and film debutedit ===
dixit made her acting debut in rajshri productions' movie abodh in 1984 opposite the bengali actor, tapas paul. the film failed but dixit earned positive reviews from critics. aakash barvalia on gomolo praised her as he wrote "madhuri excels in her role as a young naive bride who acquits herself well as the naive village girl and does not realize what marriage actually entails." her only release of 1985 was awara baap that turned out to be another failure for dixit.
in 1986, dixit starred in two movies, swati and manav hatya but both films flopped at the box office. dixit had three releases in 1987 with mohre, hifazat and uttar dakshin but her films continued to flop at the box office.
dixit finally attained stardom after a series of consecutive flops when she landed the lead female role of mohini in n. chandra's blockbuster tezaab opposite anil kapoor. the film went on to become that year's highest grossing movie. it was dixit's first hit at the box office. akshay shah of planet bollywood praised dixit for her dancing skills and her acting was also noticed. he wrote "mahduri dixit gives a fine tuned performance. though she is more remembered for her crowd pleasing dance act ek do teen, her acting needs to be noted, specially in the scenes where she is pitted against anupam kher. she looks and dances like a dream." dixit received her first nomination for the filmfare best actress award for her work in tezaab.
in 1989, her first release was subhash ghai's movie ram lakhan, in which she was paired once again with anil kapoor. the film became a super-hit and went on to become the second highest grossing film of the year. dixit's next release prem pratigyaa, in which she starred opposite mithun chakraborty, earned her second nomination for the filmfare best actress award. thereafter dixit got success in rajiv rai's multi-starrer tridev, in which she starred opposite naseeruddin shah, jackie shroff, sunny deol, sangeeta bijlani, sonam and amrish puri. dixit was paired with deol. the movie became the year's third highest grossing film but dixit did not get much acting. dixit continued her success with her fourth pairing with anil kapoor in vidhu vinod chopra's parinda. although dixit's work was limited, she earned critical acclaim. aniket joshi has praised her as he wrote "madhuri dixit, the only female character in the film, has a small role as paro (karan s love interest and prakash s sister) yet still does well in the few scenes she has."


=== 1990 2002: superstardomedit ===
in 1990, dixit starred in the super-hit dil opposite aamir khan. she played the role of a rich and arrogant girl who falls in love with a poorer boy and later leaves home to marry him. the film became the biggest box-office hit of the year in india and dixit's performance earned her the first filmfare best actress award of her career. madhuri was also seen in kishen kanhaiya opposite anil kapoor, the movie went on to become the third biggest hit of the year. her strong performance as a wife helping her husband through tough times was applauded, and her acting was now being recognised.
after the success of dil, dixit became one of the top actresses of bollywood. the following year she starred in the super-hit movie saajan opposite salman khan and sanjay dutt. the movie became the year's highest-grossing movie. dixit's performance earned her the fourth nomination for the filmfare best actress award.
in 1992, dixit featured in the blockbuster beta opposite anil kapoor. dixit's performance of saraswati, a woman married to an illiterate, well-meaning man who exposes her scheming mother-in-law earned her critical acclaim. upperstall.com praised dixit's work "she made beta her own film totally stealing a march over the film's hero, anil kapoor. while the highlight of the film was undoubtedly dhak dhak karne laga   probably the sexiest and most popular dance of madhuri's career, her blazing performance   that of a woman married to an illiterate, well-meaning man and who exposes her scheming mother-in-law whom her husband dotes on   had film reviewers gushing with several people jokingly saying the film should have been called beti instead!" dixit's performance in beta won her a second filmfare best actress award. following the film's success, dixit became famously known as the "dhak dhak girl" for her performance in the famous song "dhak dhak karne laga".
in 1993, dixit starred in the controversial super-hit khalnayak opposite sanjay dutt and jackie shroff. her portrayal of the police officer ganga earned her critical acclaim. shahid khan of planet bollywood praised dixit's dancing and acting skills in the movie "in any other film, the heroine would not have much to do with a plot like this. so immense is the star-power of madhuri dixit that subhash ghai actually carved out a solid role for her in this macho tale of a bad boy and his shenanigans. she gives real competition to sanjay dutt. the audiences ran in their droves to witness the madhuri dixit magic. in every scene, she holds you captive with her stunning beauty, demanding screen presence, expressive acting and excellent dancing skills. saroj khan s dance choreography is entertaining to watch, particularly in "choli ke peeche kya hai". madhuri s entrance is a riot with a prison inmate asking her, "kaisi aurat hai tu? (what kind of a woman are you?)  and she responds by slapping her and saying, "aisi aurat hoon main! (this is the kind of woman i am!) ." dixit's performance in khalnayak earned her a sixth nomination for the filmfare best actress award and became the year's second highest grossing film.
in 1994, dixit starred in anjaam, being paired with shahrukh khan for the first time. dixit's performance of a revenge-seeking wife and mother earned her a seventh nomination for the filmfare best actress award. dixit was praised for her performance, though the film was a below average performer at the box office. her next starring role was in the all-time blockbuster hum aapke hain koun..! opposite salman khan. the film became one of the biggest hits in the history of hindi cinema and made   1.35 billion worldwide, breaking the record of the film sholay (1975). it became the highest grossing bollywood film in hindi cinema history after its theatrical run and held the record for 7 years till the release of gadar: ek prem katha (2001). dixit's role of a modern yet family-oriented young girl fetched her the third filmfare best actress award of her career. critics believed the film to be "too sweet" but appreciated dixit's performance as she mesmerised on the screen. in the millennium edition of the "guinness book of world records", hum aapke hain kaun became the bollywood's highest grossing film. upperstall.com wrote "madhuri dixit, reunited with the banner that launched her, stands out and is undoubtedly the life of the film as nisha. be it the mischievous but strong-minded, independent girl who gives it to prem as good as she gets or the woman willing to sacrifice her love believing she is doing the right thing, madhuri is absolutely spot on creating one of the more memorable female characters of hindi cinema."
1995 saw dixit star in the hit raja opposite sanjay kapoor. the film became the fourth highest grosser of the year and its success was attributed to her immense popularity. her next release was david dhawan's yaraana opposite rishi kapoor, in which she played a dancer on the run from her abusive lover. this film was a below average performer at the box office. both films earned her nominations for the filmfare best actress award.
dixit's career went into a slump during 1996 as films like prem granth and rajkumar flopped at the box office. in 1997, dixit bounced back with prakash jha's mrityudand, in which she performed opposite shabana azmi and shilpa shirodkar. dixit played the role of ketki, one of the three troubled women and earned immense critical acclaim for her performance. upperstall.com wrote "madhuri gives a wonderful, insightful performance as the self-respecting educated woman married into a family of male chauvinistic upper class landlords and who is humiliated by her husband when she objects to his misdeeds, never hitting a false note. she more than matches up to seasoned artists like shabana and om puri in their scenes together. in a word, she is mesmerizing."
dixit earned commercial success with yash raj films' super-hit musical-romance dil to pagal hai starring opposite shahrukh khan and karisma kapoor. her portrayal of a young woman faced with a moral dilemma fetched her a fourth filmfare best actress award. the movie became the second highest grosser of the year.
in 1998, dixit had only one release wajood opposite nana patekar and mukul dev. the film did below average business. in the following year, dixit had again only one release aarzoo opposite akshay kumar and saif ali khan. anjali abrol of planet bollywood praised dixit's performance and wrote "madhuri, despite any role given, carries it off with ease and grace... even despite the mismatch of age, she does justice to her role, and is the best actress in bollywood today, comparatively. she also is what i consider a classic indian beauty.... her natural, distinctive indian looks set her apart from many other heroines (i say heroines because many have yet to learn to act, and cannot justfully be called actresses yet), she proves that she does not need blatant blond/red highlights, tons of body paint and makeup, blue contacts, and scraps of clothes to look beautiful...and that the complete following of western trends isn t worth sacrificing traditional indian beauty, grace, and respect for popularity...a mixture of both that remains respectable...it s quality rather than quantity (or lackthereof, in the clothes department)." aarzoo was a failure in india but was a modest success overseas. in 1999, dixit also married a denver-based doctor sriram madhav nene decided to cut on her work.
in 2000, dixit earned critical acclaim and commercial success with rajkumar santoshi's pukar opposite anil kapoor and namrata shirodkar. pukar was a moderate success at the box office and re-established dixit as a competent actress. dixit's performance of anjali, a jealous lover was praised by critics. anish khanna of planet bollywood wrote "her character has a gamut of emotions to run through   childish immaturity, obsession, evil, anger, anguish   and madhuri really sinks her teeth into each one. she is magical in the dance sequences but even more amazing in the dialogue sequences. dixit's performance in pukar earned her twelfth nomination for the filmfare best actress award. dixit's next release of the year was gaja gamini, which was a failure at the box office.
in 2001, dixit starred in deepak shivdasani's love triangle yeh raaste hain pyaar ke opposite ajay devgan and preity zinta. the film was a flop but dixit was praised for her performance. dixit followed up by reuniting with rajkumar santoshi in the multi-starrer lajja. she was featured in a supporting role opposite samir soni. despite being a multi-starrer movie, the film failed in india but it was an overseas success. dixit again earned critical acclaim for her performance and taran adarsh of bollywood hungama praised her saying that "madhuri dixit is simply fantastic. the ease with which she emotes this complex character deserves full marks. her expressions when her lover dumps her during the course of the play, proves what a magnificent actress she is." dixit's performance earned her a nomination for the filmfare award for best supporting actress.
in 2002, dixit starred in a lead role in the much-delayed love triangle hum tumhare hain sanam opposite shahrukh khan and salman khan. the film received mainly negative reviews but did above average business at the box-office, becoming the fifth highest grossing movie of the year. dixit's next release was sanjay leela bhansali's hit film devdas, co-starring shahrukh khan and aishwarya rai. dixit portrayed the role of chandramukhi, a courtesan in love with devdas. she was praised by sita menon of rediff "the most understated role and perhaps the one that is most lingering, in terms of virtuosity, is that played by madhuri dixit. as chandramukhi, she is simply stunning, lending passion, fire and gentleness with such consummate ease that watching her perform is sheer delight." the film was the highest grossing movie of 2002 and dixit's performance earned her the filmfare best supporting actress award. it was also featured at the cannes film festival. it turned out to be dixit's last movie for a while as she took a sabbatical to have children and raise them. she moved to denver permanently.
the following year a film named after her, main madhuri dixit banna chahti hoon, was released in which a woman (played by antara mali) aspires to become the new madhuri dixit by trying her luck in bollywood.
dixit, also made her first appearance on television as a host for the india's first reality show "kahin na kahin koi hai" on sony tv.


=== 2007 present: return to bollywoodedit ===
in 2006, dixit returned to mumbai with her husband and sons to start filming for aaja nachle. the film released in november 2007 and, despite the critics panning it, dixit's performance was highly appreciated, with the new york times commenting about her that "she's still got it". her performance in aaja nachle earned her the record-setting thirteenth nomination for the filmfare best actress award. however, after the film dixit flew back to denver.
in 2012, dixit was felicitated with a filmfare special award to acknowledge her completion of her 25 years of service to the bollywood industry.
in 2012 madhuri returned to india and started shooting in 2013. her first release was vishal bhardwaj's dedh ishqiya, a sequel to the much acclaimed ishqiya. dixit had replaced vidya balan for the sequel. dixit was cast as a con-woman in the form of a begum opposite naseeruddin shah, arshad warsi and huma qureshi. the movie opened to widespread critical acclaim and unanimous praise. the film also proved to be profit-oriented. critics called it a successful comeback.taran adarsh of the entertainment portal bollywood hungama called dixit," a powerhouse of talent", rediff.com reviewed, "her performance   one that demands small, precise shifts in tone instead of showy histrionics   is pitched perfectly. and it s a privilege to see her dance the classics. and deepanjana pal of firstpost writing, "she's still capable of keeping an audience glued to their seats when the credits start rolling, all because she's dancing on screen." the film earned dixit her fourteenth nomination for filmfare award for best actress.
her next and final release was the women-centric drama gulaab gang. dixit played the role of rajjo, a women leader fighting for the justice of women. the film was noted for bringing two leading yestyear actresses dixit and juhi chawla onscreen together for the first time. gulaab gang flopped at the box office earning mixed reviews. danny bowes wrote, "dixit is one of the all-time greats and getting to see her work is a delight regardless of the surrounding film's quality, but getting to see her wreaking havoc in the kind of wild action sequences usually reserved for the thick-mustached, bare-chested, and male is a particular joy" and koimoi reviewing, " dixit is effectively convincing in her spirited performance adding fiber to her largely author backed role with perseverance. the lady after the delicate role of begum para in dedh ishqiya shows her mettle in with equal vigor proclaiming to the younger guns what female superstars of bollywood were originally made of." gulaab gang was criticized due to the presence of dixit's songs in a serious social film.
later on in 2014, jhalak dikhhla jaa was renewed for a new season and dixit returned to the judging panel for the fourth time with her co-judges remo d'souza and karan johar.


== artistryedit ==


=== danceedit ===

dixit is not only known for her acting skills, but for her dancing skills as well. often referred to as the "dhak dhak girl", she is famous for her dance in the song "dhak dhak karne laga" from the film beta. she is also known for her dance sequences accompanying bollywood songs such as "ek do teen" (from tezaab), "humko aaj kal hai" (from sailaab), "bada dukh deenha" (from ram lakhan), "chane ke khet mein" (from anjaam), "didi tera devar deewana" (from hum aapke hain koun..!), "choli ke peechhe" (from khalnayak), "akhiyan milaun" (from raja), "mera piya ghar aaya" (from yaraana), "kay sera sera" (from pukar), "badi mushkil" (from lajja), "maar daala" (from devdas), "aaja nachle" (from aaja nachle), and "ghagra" (from yeh jawaani hai deewani).
pandit birju maharaj, a kathak dancer, who choreographed dixit in the film devdas for the song "kaahe chhed" calls her as "the best bollywood dancer due to her versatility." film critic raja sen describes dixit as "the industry's numero uno in every sense." further he elaborates, "she is an exemplary dancer. from kathak to dhak dhak, she's done it all and wowed us every step of the way." saroj khan, who choreographer most of dixit's early hits, after working with her again in gulaab gang called her, "choreographer's delight".
as an actress, dixit has often been compared to madhubala, meena kumari and nargis, who were among the most popular actresses of the black-and-white era of bollywood. she was often referred to as the madhubala of the 1990s.


=== dance academyedit ===
in 2013, madhuri launched her own dance academy through an online website which is called "dance with madhuri. the academy is accessible to 200 countries and has more than 200,000 frequent users. as well as madhuri, other very well known dancing gurus have been teaching on "dance with madhuri" such as the national award winning choreographer saroj khan, pandit birju maharaj, remo d'souza and many more.
the dance academy teaches all types of dance forms such as bollywood, waltz, samba, dandia, etc. madhuri also teaches one on one special classes, teaching her students some of her most memorable dance numbers such as ek do teen, mayi ne mayi, aaja nachle, ghagra and badi mushkil.


== non-acting workedit ==


=== stage performancesedit ===
dixit is a frequent performer and has participated in several world tours and concerts. with a huge fan base, madhuri is one of the most requested stars to perform nationally and internationally. she has taken part in some of the biggest bollywood tours in the world, with some of the biggest stars, such as amitabh bachchan and shah rukh khan.
in the mid-2008, madhuri, aishwarya rai bachchan, abhishek bachchan, amitabh bachchan, preity zinta, ritesh deshmukh, starred in the "unforgettable world tour" stage production. the tour covered the usa, canada, trinidad, and london, england.
in 2013, dixit joined the fourth instalment of shah rukh khans temptation tour "temptation reloaded" where they visited and performed series of concerts in auckland, perth, sydney and dubai; it also featured rani mukerji, deepika padukone, jacqueline fernandez, honey singh and meiyang ch ng. madhuri also performed at the 14th iifa awards 2013, where she made her first ever appearance which was held in macau.
in march 2014, madhuri was again invited to perform at the 15th iffa awards 2014, where she danced on a medley of her most popular dance numbers. on 5 october 2014 madhuri was seen performing in london at the o2 arena. she performed as a part of joining her good friend shah rukh khan for his promotional tour 'the slam tour' to promote his upcoming movie happy new year. again on 25 october, madhuri dixit performed in mauritius in the anjalay stadium on the occasion of diwali which also featured farhan akhtar.


=== legal notice for alleged false representation in endorsementsedit ===
in may- june 2015 the tamil nadu consumer's forum slapped notices on her for "false representation" in advertisements of maggi, a noodle brand in which toxic levels of lead were found. she continued endorsing about the safety of the product in twitter, even when food regulators had already found more than 17 times the permissible limits of lead and its product banned.
on june 5, 2015, food safety and standards authority of india (fssai) orders banned all nine approved variants of maggi instant noodles from india, terming them "unsafe and hazardous" for human consumption. it was also found that the "health oats noodles", a product which had not even completed the mandatory "process of risk assessment" was promoted by the actress.


=== social workedit ===
in 2001 dixit won   5,000,000 on kaun banega crorepati, a game show then in its first season on the air. she directed that her winnings be donated for the welfare of victims of an earthquake in gujarat and to an orphanage in pune.
in 2009 dixit performed for ndtv toyota greenathon india's first-ever nationwide campaign for save the environment and creating awareness about environmental issues. ndtv organised india's first 24-hour live telethon, a fund-raising event that brings in people to donate money to support teri's initiative lighting a billion lives which aims at providing solar power to villages without electricity. dixit became a part of this great social cause, and she performed her hit numbers on the live show.
on 3 february 2011 dixit spent an evening with 75 orphanage kids of farmers at an ashram in trimbakeshwar and participated in the birthday of two children: hrishikesh and rani. "we artists are ready to help such children. people from the higher society should come forward and stand firmly behind them," she said on the occasion.

dixit is a goodwill ambassador and a patron for "emeralds for elephants"   a charity project for the conservation of asian elephants and other endangered species. this project has been designed to create awareness and raise vital funds for the protection of the critically endangered asian elephant. a collaborative project between the world land trust (a uk based nonprofit environmental organisation) and the wildlife trust of india that is creating protected wildlife corridors connecting national parks and protected areas to others. speaking about the issue she said: "elephants are one of my favourite animals and i love them. so what we need to do today is to see how we can preserve our animals. i feel very strongly about this."
on 4 february 2012 madhuri dixit interacted with cancer affected children on world cancer day organised by pawan hans helicopters ltd at juhu, mumbai.on world cancer day pawan hans helicopters limited offered a free joy ride to cancer affected children with the support of cancer patients aid association. in june 2014, dixit was appointed as the "goodwill ambassador advocate" for child and equal woman's rights. when appointed as the chief advocate for child rights.


== television appearancesedit ==

in the year 1985, she appeared in the rajshri production's tv show paying guest. she came in the first episode of the show as neena.
in 2001 on the popular game show kaun banega crorepati  ' s first season, hosted by amitabh bachchan, she won   5,000,000 that she donated for people affected in natural calamities. she also made an appearance in season 4's grand finale that aired in 2010. in 2002, dixit hosted a tv show kahina kahi koi hai which was a match-making show that aired on sony entertainment.
she also made appearances on koffee with karan in seasons two and three that aired in 2007 and 2011, respectively. her season 2 appearance was a solo appearance and in season 3 she shared the chat show with sonakshi sinha. in 2014, madhuri made her third appearance on koffee with karan, on its fourth season alongside juhi chawla.
dixit has been guest on nach baliye season 1 and 3, a celebrity-couple dancing competition in 2005 (aired on star one) & 2007 (aired on star plus).
in 2011, she appeared as a judge on the dance reality show jhalak dikhhla jaa 4 along with other co-judges remo d'souza and malaika arora khan.
in 2012 and 2013, dixit rejoined for jhalak dikhhla jaa 5 and jhalak dikhhla jaa 6 along with her co-judges remo d'souza and karan johar.
madhuri also appeared on indias got talent as a guest judge on two separate occasions for the promotion of her upcoming movies dedh ishqiya and gulaab gang that released in early 2014.
later on in 2014, jhalak dikhhla jaa was renewed for a new season, jhalak dikhhla jaa 7 where yet again we saw the diva herself madhuri dixit return to the judging panel for her fourth time with her co-judges remo d'souza and karan johar.


== personal lifeedit ==
during the making of saajan in 1990, madhuri was involved with sanjay dutt who was married at that time to richa sharma. however, with dutt's arrest under tada in 1993, madhuri ended the relationship.
on 17 october 1999, dixit married dr. shriram madhav nene, a cardiovascular surgeon from los angeles, california. they have two sons, arin (b. march 2003) and rayaan (b. march 2005). after her marriage, dixit relocated to denver, colorado, for almost a decade. she moved back to mumbai with her family in october 2011.
dixit has been the muse for the indian painter m.f. husain. he was so fascinated by dixit in hum aapke hain koun..! that he watched the film 67 times, and in 2007 he booked an entire theatre to see her comeback movie aaja nachle. he made a series of paintings of her, and in 2000 made a film named gaja gamini starring her, which was intended as a tribute to dixit herself.
dixit has always been a passionate dancer, and therefore turned her passion into reality by opening her own online dance academy "dance with madhuri", where her fans have a one to one lesson to learn some of her most famous and well known dance numbers.


== awards and nominationsedit ==


== filmographyedit ==


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
official website
madhuri dixit on facebook
madhuri dixit at allmovie
madhuri dixit at the internet movie database

aishwarya rai (born 1 november 1973), known as aishwarya rai bachchan after her marriage, is an indian actress and the winner of the miss world pageant of 1994. through her successful bollywood career, she has established herself as one the most popular and high-profile celebrities in india. rai has received several awards, including two filmfare awards from ten nominations. she was awarded the padma shri by the government of india in 2009 and the ordre des arts et des lettres by the government of france in 2012. she has been cited in the media as the "most beautiful woman in the world".
while in college, rai did a few modelling assignments. following appearances in several television commercials, she entered into the miss india pageant, in which she placed second. she was then crowned miss world 1994, after which she began receiving offers to act in film. she made her acting debut with the 1997 tamil film iruvar and had her first hindi film release in aur pyaar ho gaya the same year. her first commercial success was the tamil romantic drama jeans (1998), following which she achieved wider success and two best actress awards at filmfare for her performances in hum dil de chuke sanam (1999) and devdas (2002). she garnered critical appreciation for portraying rabindranath tagore's heroine, binodini, in the bengali film chokher bali (2003) and a depressed woman in the relationship drama raincoat (2004). rai's greatest commercial successes have been the adventure film dhoom 2 (2006), the historical romance jodhaa akbar (2008), and the science fiction film enthiran (2010). she also received praise for performing a nurse in the drama guzaarish (2010).
rai's off-screen roles include duties as a brand ambassador for several charity organisations and campaigns. she is a goodwill ambassador for the joint united nations programme on aids (unaids).


== early life and modelling careeredit ==
rai was born into a tulu speaking bunt family in mangalore, karnataka. her father, krishnaraj, was an army biologist, while her mother, brinda, is a homemaker. she has one elder brother, aditya rai, who is an engineer in the merchant navy. he co-produced one of her movies, dil ka rishta (2003).
the family moved to mumbai, where rai attended the arya vidya mandir high school, mumbai. rai did her intermediate schooling at jai hind college for a year, and then joined dg ruparel college in matunga, securing 90 percent in the hsc exams. she trained in classical dance and music for five years during her teens. her favourite subject was zoology, so she initially considered a career in medicine but was unsuccessful later on. then with plans to become an architect, she enrolled at raheja college of arts., but later gave up her education to pursue a career in modelling.
in 1991, rai won an international supermodel contest (organised by ford) and was eventually featured in the american edition of vogue. in 1993, rai gained huge public recognition for her appearance in a pepsi commercial with actors aamir khan and mahima chaudhry. the single line - "hi, i'm sanjana," of her dialogue in the commercial made her instantly famous. in the 1994 miss india pageant, she won second place, behind sushmita sen, and was crowned miss india world, also winning five other sub-titles, including "miss catwalk", "miss miraculous", "miss photogenic", "miss perfect ten" and "miss popular". with sen representing india at the miss universe pageant, aishwarya's duties as the first runner-up included representing india in the rival miss world pageant, held that year in sun city, south africa. she went on to win the crown where she also won the "miss photogenic" award and miss world continental queen of beauty   asia and oceania. after winning the pageant, rai spoke of her dream for peace for this world, and her desire to be an ambassador of peace during her one-year reign in london. rai continued to pursue a career as a model until she became an actress.


== acting careeredit ==


=== early work (1997 1998)edit ===
rai made her acting debut in 1997 with mani ratnam's tamil film iruvar, a semi-biographical political drama, featuring mohanlal, prakash raj, tabu and revathi. the film was a critical success and among other awards, won the best film award at the belgrade international film festival rai featured as pushpavalli and kalpana   dual roles; the latter was a fictionalised portrayal of politician and former actress jayalalithaa. due to rai's weak tamil-speaking skills, her dialogue in the film was dubbed by tamil actress rohini. that same year, she was cast as ashi, a naive teenager in her first bollywood film   aur pyaar ho gaya, a romantic comedy opposite bobby deol. the film was a commercial failure, and reviewers were critical of the film and rai's acting ability.
in the 1998 big-budget tamil romantic drama jeans directed by s. shankar, rai appeared alongside prashanth and nassar. she played madhumita, a young woman who accompanies her ailing grandmother to the united states to seek medical attention. a commercial success, the film earned rai praise for her acting and dancing skills. unlike in iruvar, rai practised and dubbed for her own lines in the film. jeans was later submitted as india's official entry to the academy awards for 1998. her first role in 1999 was in the melodrama aa ab laut chalen, directed by rishi kapoor. the film was a critical failure and had a below average performance at the box office. rai's portrayal of pooja walia, a traditional indian woman living in the united states, met with negative reviews; rediff.com published, "aishwarya rai sports a plastic smile and never gets a scene where she can portray any depth. all she does is cry and smile and look pretty".


=== public recognition and success (1999 2001)edit ===
in 1999, rai starred in the romantic drama hum dil de chuke sanam which became a significant turning point in her career. the film, an adaptation of maitreyi devi's bengali novel na hanyate, was directed by sanjay leela bhansali and co-starred salman khan and ajay devgan. she played the main protagonist nandini, a gujarati woman who is forced into wedlock (with devgan's character) despite being in love with another man (played by khan). themoviereport.com praised rai's performance over her co-actors and noted, "rai, in a luminous, award-winning performance (largely considered her big dramatic breakthrough and justifiably so), fills in the conflicted emotional shades that khan fails to bring with his one-dimensional presence". hum dil de chuke sanam emerged as a major commercial success and won rai a filmfare award for best actress. rai next took the leading role of mansi, an aspiring singer, in subhash ghai's musical taal; alongside akshay khanna, anil kapoor, amrish puri and alok nath. rai's performance earned positive feedback from critics. rediff noted "after being praised for her looks and acting talent in hum dil de chuke sanam, aishwarya has excelled in taal. the film will again enhance her reputation as an actress; besides acting well she also dances beautifully. a moderate domestic success, taal was notable for being the first indian film to feature in the top twenty listing at the american box-office. rai received a second best actress nomination that year at the filmfare awards ceremony.
in 2000, rai starred in kandukondain kandukondain, a tamil language adaptation of jane austen's novel sense and sensibility. directed by rajiv menon, the film also starred tabu, mammooty and ajith kumar in prominent roles. rai was cast as meenakshi (based on the character of marianne dashwood), the younger sister of tabu's character. the film was a critical and commercial success and earned rai positive comments from critics; a review carried by the indian express summarised, "attacking her role with just the perfect dollop of innocence, aishwarya does full justice to her part, and matches up perfectly to tabu."
aishwarya rai next starred alongside shah rukh khan and chandrachur singh in the action drama josh. she portrayed shirley dias, the twin sister of khan's character who falls in love with his arch enemy's brother (played by singh). the casting of rai as khan's sister was considered an unusual pairing at the time; director mansoor khan, however, described it as "perfect". despite earning mixed reviews from film critics, josh emerged as a commercial success. satish kaushik's social drama hamara dil aapke paas hai was rai's next release; she played a rape victim in the film. co-starring anil kapoor and sonali bendre, the film was well received by critics and did moderate business at the box office. film critic sukanya verma praised rai's decision to star in the film and added that she "conveys the turmoil and pain of a rape victim well. but it is her transition from an emotional wreck trying to gather the broken pieces of her life back together that is amazing." rai eventually earned a third best actress nomination at filmfare.
following a leading role in the box-office flop dhai akshar prem ke, rai took on a supporting role in aditya chopra's ensemble romance mohabbatein. rai's role was that of megha shankar, the daughter of amitabh bachchan's character who commits suicide after realising that her father will not accept her romance with one of his students (played by shah rukh khan). despite earning mixed reviews from film critics, mohabbatein emerged as the second highest grossing film of the year and earned rai a filmfare award for best supporting actress nomination. the following year, she starred alongside govinda and jackie shroff in the romantic comedy albela. upon release, both the film and her performance received mostly negative reviews; taran adarsh of bollywood hungama criticised the film and mentioned rai as "plastic in some scenes".


=== devdas and international cinema debut (2002 07)edit ===

after featuring in david dhawan's slapstick comedy film hum kisise kum nahin, rai appeared alongside shahrukh khan and madhuri dixit in sanjay leela bhansali's love-saga devdas, an adaptation of sharat chandra chattopadhyay's novel of the same name. she played the role of paro (parvati), the love interest of the protagonist (played by khan). the film was screened at the 2002 cannes film festival and was featured by time in their listing of the "10 best films of the millennium". the film emerged as a major international success with revenues of over  530 million (us$8.0 million). alan morrison, writing for empire, praised the performances of the three leads and wrote, "aishwarya rai proves she has the acting talent to back up her flawless looks". devdas was chosen as india's official entry for the academy award for best foreign language film and received a nomination at the bafta awards in the best foreign language film category. in india, the film won 10 filmfare awards, including a second best actress award for rai.
in 2003, rai featured in two romantic dramas of bollywood, her brother's production d but dil ka rishta, alongside arjun rampal, and rohan sippy's kuch na kaho, alongside abhishek bachchan. neither of these films fared well critically or commercially. she was later noted for her starring role in rituparno ghosh's independent bengali film chokher bali, an adaptation of rabindranath tagore's novel of the same name. she portrayed the character of binodini, an emotionally manipulative widow, struggling with her sexual desires in early-20th century bengal. the film was a major critical success and rai earned positive notice for her performance; derek elley of variety noted, "rai dominates the film with her delicately sensual presence and physical grace". commercially, the film was a sleeper hit.
after the success of chokher bali, rai returned to mainstream hindi film with rajkumar santoshi's khakee (2004), a suspense thriller featuring amitabh bachchan, akshay kumar, ajay devgan and tusshar kapoor. the film tells the story of five constables embroiled in a mystery surrounding a terrorist attack; rai's role was that of mahalakshmi, a gun moll. while filming for khakee, rai was accidentally hit by a running car, which resulted in the fracture of her left foot. upon release, the film received moderate critical and commercial success. in her next release, the romantic comedy kyun! ho gaya na..., rai played diya malhotra, a university student who develops a one-sided attraction toward her friend arjun khanna (played by vivek oberoi). the film received positive to mixed comments from critics, but failed commercially.
in late 2004, rai garnered international recognition for her starring role opposite martin henderson in gurinder chadha's british film bride and prejudice, a bollywood-style adaptation of jane austen's novel pride and prejudice. international film critics were appreciative of rai's "beauty" but questioned her acting abilities; a review carried by the new york times mentioned her as "radiantly beautiful but inert". with a worldwide gross of $24 million against a production budget of $7 million, bride and prejudice proved a commercial success. rai next collaborated with director rituparno ghosh, for the second time, in the relationship drama raincoat, an adaptation of o. henry's the gift of the magi. also featuring ajay devgan, raincoat met with wide critical acclaim and among other wins, won the national film award for best feature film in hindi. the hindu noted, "[a]s neerja, [rai] appears to have shed her inhibitions about looking unglamorous. what is more, she seems to have made an earnest effort to emote, using less of her body and limbs and more of her face, and eyes in particular". she eventually received another best actress nomination at filmfare.
rai next co-starred alongside sanjay dutt and zayed khan in the 2005 adult drama shabd, which tells the story of an author who convinces his wife to pursue an illicit relationship with a younger man in research for his next book. the film received predominantly negative reviews and proved a commercial failure. the times of india concluded, "for the umpteenth time, ms rai looks drop-dead gorgeous. and that's about it. she is like that picture postcard you get when what you were actually waiting for is a letter. it's very beautiful to look at, but is of no use because it says nothing." that same year, rai took on the lead role of tilo in paul mayeda berges's romantic fantasy film the mistress of spices, an adaptation of the novel of the same name by chitra banerjee divakaruni. the film received unanimous negative reviews from film critics and emerged as a commercial failure. peter bradshaw of the guardian termed rai's performance as "annoying" and wrote that she "wafts and simpers" through the entire film. rai's only successful venture of 2005 was a special appearance in shaad ali's comedy bunty aur babli, in which she featured in the popular item number kajra re.

rai had two film releases in 2006, j p dutta's umrao jaan and yash raj films' dhoom 2. the former, an adaptation of mirza hadi ruswa's urdu novel umrao jaan ada (1905), tells the story of a doomed courtesan from 19th-century lucknow. rai played the titular role, a character famously played by rekha in the first film adaptation of the novel. reviewers, while comparing the film to its previous adaptation, were critical of the film as well as of rai's performance. bbc noted, "while only aishwarya could emulate the grace and poise of rekha, she doesn't quite capture the intensity of umrao's abiding melancholy", adding that "rai's incandescent beauty and artistry [..] does indeed keep the audience watching, though not necessarily emotionally engaged."
in the sanjay gadhvi-directed adventure film dhoom 2, rai portrayed sunehri, a petty thief who helps the police catch an illusive criminal; the film had an ensemble cast including hrithik roshan, abhishek bachchan, bipasha basu, and uday chopra. though critically unsuccessful, the film was rai's first major commercial success since devdas; the film was declared a blockbuster, and became the highest grossing indian film of 2006 with gross revenues of over  1.11 billion (us$17 million). rediff.com commented, "[she] is all gloss and no depth. you seldom feel any tension in her behaviour and expressions. [..] sunehri enters the film nearly 50 minutes after its opening in a disguise. in no time, she is wearing the flimsiest of clothes. once she opens her mouth and she does it two minutes after appearing in the film she spoils the image." nonetheless, her performance earned her a sixth filmfare award nomination in the best actress category.
in 2007, rai played the wife of abhishek bachchan's character in mani ratnam's social drama guru. a fictionalised biography of businessman dhirubhai ambani, guru tells the rag to riches story of an uneducated man who builds a multinational corporation. the film met with international critical acclaim and emerged as a box-office success. richard corliss of time labelled her character as an "ornament", but raja sen from rediff described it as "her finest performance, visible especially when she takes over the film's climax." rai received her seventh best actress nomination at filmfare for her performance in the film. rai next starred alongside naveen andrews and miranda richardson in jag mundhra's independent british drama provoked, as the real-life character of kiranjit ahluwalia, a non-resident indian who murders her husband after suffering from years of domestic abuse. rai earned mostly positive comments for her performance. critic indu mirani from dna wrote, "aishwarya rai plays the battered wife in what is undoubtedly one of her best performances to date. rai convincingly goes through the various stages of shock, bewilderment, remorse and finally vindication". internationally well-received, the film emerged as a moderate commercial success in the united kingdom. that same year, rai starred as mira, an indian warrior in doug lefler's epic film the last legion. starring alongside sir ben kingsley, colin firth, and thomas sangster,.


=== jodhaa akbar and other roles (2008 10)edit ===
after a series of films that under-performed either critically or commercially, rai garnered both critical and box-office success with ashutosh gowariker's period romance jodhaa akbar (2008). the film narrates a partly fictionalised account of a marriage of convenience between the mughal emperor jalaluddin muhammad akbar (played by hrithik roshan) and the rajput princess jodha bai (played by rai). rajeev masand noted, "aishwarya rai is wonderfully restrained and uses her eyes expertly to communicate so much, making this one of her finest outings on screen". the film had gross earnings of  1.12 billion (us$17 million) and fetched rai a best actress nomination at the filmfare awards ceremony. she then co-starred with her husband, abhishek bachchan, and her father-in-law, amitabh bachchan, in ram gopal verma's political drama sarkar raj, a sequel to the 2005 box-office hit sarkar. rai was cast as anita rajan, the ceo of an international power firm who proposes to set up a plant in rural maharashtra. the film was a critical and commercial success, with praise directed to the performances of the three leads.

rai's next role was in the 2009 harald zwart-directed spy comedy the pink panther 2. starring alongside steve martin, jean reno and emily mortimer, rai portrayed the role of sonia solandres, a seductive criminology expert. like its predecessor, the sequel received negative reviews from critics, but did a moderate business of $34 million at the american box office. roger ebert wrote, "rai is breathtaking in bollywood films, where they devote a great deal of expertise to admiring beauty, but here she's underutilized and too much in the background"; usa today mentioned her expressions as "wooden" and added, "she looks gorgeous, but her expression rarely changes".
in 2010, rai was cast by mani ratnam in his bilingual modern-day adaptation of the indian epic ramayana. her role was that of ragini (modeled on sita, the heroine of ramayana), a woman married to the superintendent of police, who is kidnapped by a bandit. the hindi version (raavan) and the tamil version (raavanan) of the film were shot simultaneously and rai played the same role in both the film versions. the films received polarising reviews from film critics, as did rai's performance. kaveree bamzai of india today wrote, "aishwarya's sita is one of the best things in the film. her performance is heartfelt this is a performer who is at ease playing women, rather than girls. however, film critics aniruddha guha and rajeev masand criticised her character and noted, "she's left to scream and shriek and hiss." commercially, raavanan emerged as a success while raavan flopped. rai's next role was opposite rajinikanth in the science fiction tamil film enthiran (2010), directed by s. shankar. she was cast as sana, a college student and the girlfriend of rajinikanth's character. at the time of release, enthiran was the most expensive indian film production and eventually emerged as one of the highest-grossing indian films of all time. she then appeared as mala, an impetuous brat, in vipul shah's action replayy; a science fiction comedy co-starring akshay kumar, aditya roy kapoor and neha dhupia.
rai's final film of 2010 was the drama guzaarish; her third collaboration with director sanjay leela bhansali and actor hrithik roshan. the film tells the story of ethan mascarenas, a former magician (played by roshan) suffering from quadriplegia, who after years of struggle, files an appeal for euthanasia. rai's role was that of sophia d'souza, mascarenas' nurse, who is abused by her alcoholic husband. despite flopping at the box-office, guzaarish met with positive critical comments. the telegragh described it to be rai's "best performance" and the times of india summarised, "aishwarya is a stunning picture of fire and grace, walking away with certain scenes by her sheer vitality." in 2011, rai was cast as the protagonist of madhur bhandarkar's social drama heroine; however, due to her pregnancy, rai was replaced by actress kareena kapoor, the original choice for the role.


=== current projects (2015 present)edit ===
in october 2015, rai appeared in sanjay gupta's action-thriller jazbaa, co-starring shabana azmi and irrfan khan, which marked her comeback after a five-year absence from the screen. the film is an unofficial remake of the korean thriller seven days (2007). she played the role of anuradha verma, a criminal lawyer who is forced to free a rapist by people who have abducted her daughter. the film opened to mixed reviews, with shomini sen from cnn-ibn writing: "jazbaa scores only because of the performances. aishwarya rai grunts and screeches on some scenes but manages to deliver a convincing performance." pallavi patra commented that "for aishwarya  the age-appropriate role was pulled off impeccably and she also showed a few action stunts".
she has committed to star alongside ranbir kapoor and anushka sharma in karan johar's romantic drama ae dil hai mushkil. rai will also play the lead role of dalbir kaur in a biopic of sarabjit singh opposite randeep hooda directed by omung kumar.


== off-screen workedit ==


=== endorsementsedit ===
rai made her first commercial for camlin pencils when she was in the 9th grade. rai became popular after appearing in a pepsi commercial with actor aamir khan. she is the only actress who endorsed both pepsi and coca-cola. she is one of the top brand ambassadors in the country and is one of the top paid bollywood actresses in this respect. she modelled for titan watches, longines watches, l'or al, coca-cola, lakm  cosmetics, casio pager, philips, palmolive, lux, fuji films, nakshatra diamond jewellery, and kalyan jewellers. she was named the official brand ambassador for de beers diamonds in india. rai has been ranked the 2nd most popular watch brand ambassador worldwide in a survey, conducted by world watch report. in 2013 rai and her husband abhishek bachchan have been roped in as the brand ambassadors by the ttk group. aishwarya rai to endorse lodha s worli project by lodha group world one


=== social and humanitarian workedit ===
in 1999 rai participated in a world tour called the magnificent five, along with aamir khan, rani mukerji, akshaye khanna and twinkle khanna. in the same year, she was appointed as longines ambassador of elegance. in 2003 she became the first indian actress to be a jury member at the cannes film festival. in the same year she became a global brand ambassador of l'or al, alongside andie macdowell, eva longoria and pen lope cruz. rai is the brand ambassador for the eye bank association of india's nationwide campaign to promote eye donation in india. in 2005 she became a brand ambassador for pulse polio, a campaign established by the government of india in 1994 to eradicate polio in india. in the same year, rai was appointed spokesperson for the international year of microcredit, raising awareness of the main goals and priorities of the united nations' poverty alleviation efforts.
in february 2005 rai performed with other bollywood stars at the help! telethon concert, an event to raise money for the victims of the 2004 tsunami earthquake. along with other members of the bachchan family, she laid the foundation of a special school for underprivileged girls in daulatpur village in uttar pradesh in 2008. construction is being funded by the bachchan family and the school will be named after rai. she appeared along with various other bollywood actors at the closing ceremony of the 2006 commonwealth games in melbourne. the performance showcased indian culture as a lead-up to india hosting the 2010 commonwealth games.
aishwarya rai is a un microcredit spokesperson she supports peta india she pledged to donate her eyes to the eye bank association of india and appeared in a public awareness film on eye donation. in november 2004, aishwara rai created the aishwarya rai foundation to help needy people in india. in 2009 rai was appointed as the first goodwill ambassador of smile train, an international charity that provides free cleft lip and palate surgery to children in need. her work with smile train will focus not only on india, but on 76 different developing countries around the world. in september 2012, rai had joined united nations secretary general ban ki-moon and renowned hollywood actor michael douglas at a ceremony to commemorate the international day of peace in new york. later that week, she was appointed as the new international goodwill ambassador for unaids, the joint united nations programme on aids and hiv. she will raise global awareness on protecting children from hiv infection and increasing access to antiretroviral treatment.


=== stage performancesedit ===

rai has taken part in several stage shows and world tours since 2001. her first world tour, a series of concerts called craze 2001, was performed across the us alongside anil kapoor, aamir khan, preity zinta and gracy singh. the show faced early cancellation due to the 11 september 2001 attacks, and the team prepared to return to india as soon as possible. however, the shows continued successfully in canada. in 2002, she participated in the show from india with love in the uk, along with amitabh bachchan, aamir khan, shah rukh khan and preity zinta. it took place at two outdoor venues, manchester's old trafford and london's hyde park, with over 100,000 spectators. in the summer of 2008, rai, her husband abhishek bachchan, her father-in-law amitabh bachchan, and actors preity zinta, ritesh deshmukh and madhuri dixit starred in the "unforgettable world tour" stage production. the first leg covered the usa, canada, trinidad, and london, england. rai is also involved in the functional and administrative operations of her father-in-law's company, originally known as abcl, and rechristened as ab corp. ltd. that company, along with wizcraft international entertainment pvt. ltd., developed the unforgettable production.


== personal lifeedit ==

in 1999, rai began dating bollywood actor salman khan; their relationship was often reported in the media until the couple separated in 2001. rai cited "abuse (verbal, physical and emotional), infidelity and indignity" on the part of khan as reasons for ending the relationship.
though they both appeared in dhai akshar prem ke (in which her then longtime boyfriend, salman khan, had a brief cameo) and kuch naa kaho, abhishek bachchan fell in love with aishwarya whilst filming dhoom 2. their engagement was announced on 14 january 2007 and later confirmed by his father, amitabh bachchan. the couple married on 20 april 2007 according to traditional hindu rites of the bunt community, to which she belongs. token north indian and bengali ceremonies were also performed. the wedding took place in a private ceremony at the bachchan residence, "prateeksha", in juhu, mumbai. they have been described as a supercouple in the indian media. rai is very close to her family and lived with them in bandra, mumbai, until her marriage. rai is hindu and deeply religious. her international presence shot up when abhishek bachchan accompanied her to the cannes film festival shortly after their marriage, and later to the oprah winfrey show, appearing on 28 september 2009. they were described as being more famous as a couple than brangelina.
rai gave birth to a baby girl on 16 november 2011. her daughter became popularly known by the name of "beti b", a name attributed to her by fans and the media, since the couple took over four months to name their daughter. the baby girl was finally named aaradhya bachchan in march 2012.


== in the mediaedit ==

rai bachchan is one of the most popular bollywood celebrities in the world. despite constant media speculation, she keeps her personal life well-guarded. her beauty and performances have made her as a style icon for young women. over 17,000 websites dedicated to her, she was selected by verve magazine in its list of the country's most powerful women. in 2001 forbes named rai among the top five indian movie stars. in a reader poll conducted by uk's hello! magazine, she was voted "the most attractive woman of 2003". in the same year, rai appeared in rolling stone magazine's annual "hot list". in 2004 she was chosen by time magazine as one of the world's most influential people, and appeared on the cover of its 2003 asia edition. she has earned the distinction of being the first indian actress to be on the jury of the cannes international film festival in october 2004 a wax figure of rai was put on display in london's madame tussaud's wax museum. she was the sixth indian and the second bollywood personality after her father-in-law, amitabh bachchan to get this honour. in 2007 the same figure was displayed at madame tussaud's museum in times square in new york. as her most distinctive physical features, rai's green-blue eyes, luscious lips, sexy curves and ultra-feminine mannerisms have been cited by the media as her trademark. in 2005 she was the subject of a 60 minutes profile on 2 january, which said that "at least according to thousands of web sites, internet polls and even julia roberts", she was "the world's most beautiful woman". the same year, a tulip in the netherlands was named "aishwarya rai" after her. also in 2005, mattel released a limited edition of barbie dolls of aishwarya rai in the united kingdom. the british magazine maxim ranked rai first on their list of "hottest women of india".
rai appeared on such shows as late show with david letterman, and was the first bollywood personality to appear on oprah's "women across the globe" segment. in 2005 harpers and queen's list of "most beautiful women in the world" ranked her ninth. in may 2006 aishwarya was featured in people magazine as one of the "world's most beautiful people". the uk magazine eastern eye ranked her third in the list of "asia's sexiest women" in 2006, and she was ranked eighth in 2009. in 2008 american television channel e!: entertainment listed aishwarya's eyes as the sexiest on their sexiest body parts list. in 2009 she made appearances on martha stewart's show martha and on the the tyra banks show. in the same year forbes listed rai at 387th out of 1,411 actors on their list of the most bankable stars in hollywood. she is the highest-ranked indian actor on the list.

in 2009 a poll conducted by the newspaper daily news and analysis, she was voted as one of india's most popular icons. she attended the 83rd academy awards, along with her husband, abhishek. rai with her husband abhishek bachchan appeared on the oprah winfrey show on 28 september 2009. she is the first indian celebrity who appeared in the oprah winfrey show twice. they have been described as a supercouple in the indian media she ranked 2nd in the times of india's 50 most desirable women of 2010, and ranked 9th for 2011. in 2011, she has received a lot of negative publicity for failing to lose her post-pregnancy weight as is apparently "required" of a public figure. however she silenced her critics by walking the red carpet at the "amfar cinema against aids" gala in 2012 cannes film festival for the 11th time. later that year, rai has made it to the issue of new york magazine s list of "forty women that women find beautiful", where she grabbed the 21st position in the list, with new york magazine saying "she may be the "world s most beautiful woman," but what we really love is that she never feels fragile onscreen,". she was considered by the media one of the most popular bollywood celebrities in india.


== filmography and awardsedit ==


=== selected filmographyedit ===

hum dil de chuke sanam (1999)
taal (1999)
mohabbatein (2000)
hamara dil aapke paas hai (2001)
devdas (2002)
raincoat (2004)
dhoom 2 (2006)
guru (2007)
jodhaa akbar (2008)
guzaarish (2010)
jazbaa (2015)


=== awardsedit ===

rai has received 10 filmfare awards nominations, and has won two best actress trophies for hum dil de chuke sanam (1999) and devdas (2002). in 2009 she was awarded the padma shri, the fourth-highest indian civilian award, by the government of india for her contributions to the arts . in 2012, she was awarded the ordre des arts et des lettres, the second-highest order of france.


== see alsoedit ==

list of indian film actresses
bachchan family


== referencesedit ==


== further readingedit ==


== external linksedit ==
aishwarya rai bachchan at the internet movie database

pankaj arjan advani (sindhi:              ) (born 24 july 1985 in pune) is an indian professional player of english billiards and former professional snooker player. in recognition of his achievements, the government of india has bestowed several awards upon advani arjuna award in 2004, rajiv gandhi khel ratna in 2006, and padma shri in 2009. he has achieved a hat-trick of hat-tricks in english billiards, holding the world, asian, and indian national championship titles simultaneously, in three different years: 2012, 2008 and 2008. he became a snooker professional only in 2012, and his first season on the main tour was the 2012/2013 season. advani won the 2014 ibsf world 6-red snooker championship, on his debut in that discipline. he is the only player ever to win professional world titles in both the long and short formats of snooker (15-red standard, and 6-red) and both formats of english billiards (time and point). advani is also india's first world champion in 6-red snooker. on august 14th, 2014, advani helped win the first ever world team billiards championship held in glasgow, scotland, along with rupesh shan, devendra joshi and ashok shandilya. this takes advani's world title tally to 10, making him the only indian to win as many in any sport.


== early lifeedit ==
pankaj advani was born on 24 july 1984 in pune, india. advani spent his initial years in kuwait before moving to bangalore, india. he received his education at the frank anthony public school, bangalore and completed his bachelor s degree in commerce from mahaveer jain college, bangalore. he received training in snooker from former national snooker champion arvind savur.
at the age of 10 his acumen for snooker came to the notice of arvind savur after being introduced to the sport by his elder brother dr. shree advani, a noted sport & performance psychologist. he won his first ever title at the age of 12 and went on to set several records at the state and national levels. in the year 2000 he won his first indian junior billiards championship title and then went on to win it again in 2001 and 2003. in 2003 he won the india junior snooker championship which made him the youngest national snooker champion.


== billiards careeredit ==
advani made his international competitive debut at the asian billiards championship 2002, held at bangalore, in which he finished as a finalist. after an amateur world snooker champion title win in 2003, he won the ibsf world billiards championship in 2005 at qawra, malta, where he became the first to achieve a "grand double" by winning both the time and point formats, a feat he repeated at the 2008 event in bangalore. he is the only indian to have won the amateur world title in both snooker and billiards.
he is also the youngest person to have won all these world titles in english billiards, for a record 8 times. advani also remains the only person to have won all five national, regional, and world billiards tournaments in a single season, a feat he achieved by winning the indian junior national championship and senior national championship, the asian billiards championship, and both the world billiards championship (point format) and world billiards championship (time format).
advani won the wpbsa billiards title, at leeds in 2009, against the defending champion mike russell; advani won 2030 1253, after gaining an 800-plus lead at his opening break. he became the first person in the world to win the trio of the wpbsa world billiards champion pro title (which he has held twice, in 2009 & 2012), and the ibsf world billiards champion amateur title, as well as the ibsm world snooker champion amateur title.
in april 2012, advani won the asian billiards championship in goa, india to become the first player to win 5 asian billiards champion titles. this takes his total tally of international majors to 17 - 8 worlds, 5 asian billiards, 2 asian games golds, 1 australian open and 1 asian team. it was announced in may that advani had accepted the indian wildcard place on the main snooker tour for the 2012/2013 season.
in october 2012, in leeds, england, advani won his seventh (counting professional and amateur) world billiards champion title, eighth world title overall, beating defending and nine-time wpbsa world billiards champion mike russell again, in the timed division final (advani did not make it to the points division final).


== snooker careeredit ==
pankaj advani, on international competitive debut in the discipline, won the ibsf world snooker championship on october 25, 2003 in jiangmen, china. he was 18 years old, and became the youngest indian to win the title, his first world title. a decade later, as a 28-year-old, at the ibsf world 6-red world snooker championship in sharm-el-sheik, egypt, he won the world title (on debut in the short format).
as a new player on the tour, advani would need to win four matches to reach the main stage of the ranking events. he did this in just his fourth attempt, when qualifying for the international championship. he defeated craig steadman 6 1, six-time world champion steve davis 6 5 (after being 1 4 down), alan mcmanus 6 3 and michael holt 6 4 to reach the venue stage for the first time. he made four century breaks during qualification, the most of any player. advani was to play a wildcard match once at the tournament in chengdu, china, to reach the last 32, however he decided to withdraw from the tournament in order to take part in the world billiards championship, which he went on to win. he also reached the semi-finals of the minor ranking european tour event 1, beating four-time world champion john higgins 4 1 along the way. advani lost to mark selby 2 4. advani played in eight of the ten of these players tour championship events and finished 40th on the order of merit.
at the 2013 welsh open, he became the first indian player to reach the quarter-final stage of a ranking event with a 4 1 win over graeme dott in the last 16, but lost 2 5 to judd trump. advani's season ended when he was beaten 8 10 by joe swail in the first round of world championship qualifying. he was ranked world number 74 after his first year on the main snooker tour.


=== 2013/2014 seasonedit ===
the 2013/2014 season saw the introduction of a ranking event in advani's home country of india for the first time which he qualified for by beating matthew selt 4 0. at the tournament in new delhi advani defeated marcus campbell 4 1 and mark allen 4 2. his match with allen finished at 11pm local time, with advani back in last 16 action at 10am the next morning to play stuart bingham. the match went to a deciding frame and when bingham broke down on a break of 30, advani stepped in to compose a match winning 86. advani played compatriot aditya mehta in the quarter-finals in an iconic match in indian snooker as the winner would be the country's first ranking event semi-finalist. the match was heavily focused on safety and it was mehta who advanced with a 4 3 win. his best run in a ranking event during the rest of the season was at the world open, where he narrowly beat xiao guodong 5 4 to set up a last 32 meeting with ding junhui. advani had a lead of 4 2 in the best of nine frame match and was 35 points to 0 ahead in the seventh frame to be on the cusp of a shock result against the player who had already won four ranking events this season. however, ding made a break of 52 to win the frame, compiled a 136 to draw level and won the deciding frame in one visit to defeat advani. advani's successful season saw him finish inside the top 64 in the world rankings for the first time as he was placed 56th.


=== 2014/2015 seasonedit ===
advani didn't enter any tournaments until september 2014, when he announced that he was relinquishing his snooker tour card in order to concentrate on his billiards career and spend more time with his family. he received an invite to participate in the wildcard round of the 2015 indian open, but lost 4 3 to rhys clark.


== performance and rankings timeline of professional snookeredit ==


== titlesedit ==
2015
ibsf world 6-red snooker championship - gold

2014
ibsf world 6-red snooker championship - gold (a world record of winning world titles in both billiards and snooker in all formats)
world team billiards championship - gold (highest number of world titles by any indian sportsperson)

2012
world billiards championship (a record 8 world titles for a 27-year-old)
asian billiards championship (a record 5 times)

2010
asian games gold medallist   english billiards singles (first gold medal for india)
asian billiards championship

2009
world professional billiards championship
asian billiards championship

2008
ibsf world billiards championship (both formats   timed and points) (repeated 2005 achievement and first ever again to win 2 twin formats)
asian billiards championship

2006
asian games gold medallist   english billiards singles

2005
ibsf world billiards championship (both formats   timed and points) (first person to ever achieve this)
asian billiards championship
india billiards championship
india junior snooker championship
india junior billiards championship
wsa challenge tour

2004
wsa challenge tour

2003
ibsf world snooker championship
indian junior billiards championship
indian junior snooker championship

2001
indian junior billiards championship

2000
indian junior billiards championship

1999
pot shot all india triangular championship
pot shot non-medallist championship

1998
karnataka state junior snooker championship

1997
27th bs sampath memorial handicap snooker championship
t.a. selvaraj memorial billiards championship
karnataka stage junior snooker championship


== awards and honorsedit ==
padma shri, india's fourth highest civilian honour, 2009 
rajiv gandhi khel ratna, india's highest sporting honour, 2005-06 
rajyotsava award, karnataka's highest civilian award, 2007.
karnataka's 'kempegowda award" in 2007.
ekalavya award in 2007
vision of india's "international indian" award in 2005.
senior sportsperson of the year 2005
the sports writers' association of bangalore
the bangalore university sportsperson of the year, 2005
the hero india sports award (hisa) in 2004
the rajeev gandhi award in 2004
the arjuna award in 2004
the indo-american young achiever's award - 2003
the sports star sportsperson of the year 2003.


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
pankaj advani at cuetracker.net: snooker results and statistic database
pankaj advani's bio at billiardsforum
.

avul pakir jainulabdeen "a. p. j." abdul kalam (/  bd l k  l  m/; 15 october 1931   27 july 2015) was the 11th president of india from 2002 to 2007. a career scientist turned reluctant politician, kalam was born and raised in rameswaram, tamil nadu, and studied physics and aerospace engineering. he spent the next four decades as a scientist and science administrator, mainly at the defence research and development organisation (drdo) and indian space research organisation (isro) and was intimately involved in india's civilian space program and military missile development efforts. he thus came to be known as the missile man of india for his work on the development of ballistic missile and launch vehicle technology. he also played a pivotal organizational, technical, and political role in india's pokhran-ii nuclear tests in 1998, the first since the original nuclear test by india in 1974.
kalam was elected as the 11th president of india in 2002 with the support of both the ruling bharatiya janata party and the then-opposition indian national congress. widely referred to as the "people's president," he returned to his civilian life of education, writing and public service after a single term. he was a recipient of several prestigious awards, including the bharat ratna, india's highest civilian honour.
while delivering a lecture at the indian institute of management shillong, kalam collapsed and died from an apparent cardiac arrest on 27 july 2015, aged 83. his death was mourned across the nation with thousands including national-level dignitaries attending the funeral ceremony held in his hometown of rameshwaram, where he was buried with full state honours.


== early life and educationedit ==
avul pakir jainulabdeen abdul kalam was born on 15 october 1931 to a tamil muslim family in the pilgrimage centre of rameswaram on pamban island, then in the madras presidency and now in the state of tamil nadu. his father jainulabudeen was a boat owner and imam of a local mosque; his mother ashiamma was a housewife. his father owned a ferry that took hindu pilgrims back and forth between rameswaram and the now uninhabited dhanushkodi. kalam was the youngest of four brothers and one sister in his family. his ancestors had been wealthy traders and landowners, with numerous properties and large tracts of land. their business had involved trading groceries between the mainland and the island and to and from sri lanka, as well as ferrying pilgrims between the mainland and pamban. as a result, the family acquired the title of "mara kalam iyakkivar" (wooden boat steerers), which over the years became shortened to "marakier." with the opening of the pamban bridge to the mainland in 1914, however, the businesses failed and the family fortune and properties were lost over time, apart from the ancestral home. by his early childhood, kalam's family had become poor; at an early age, he sold newspapers to supplement his family's income.
in his school years, kalam had average grades but was described as a bright and hardworking student who had a strong desire to learn. he spent hours on his studies, especially mathematics. after completing his education at the schwartz higher secondary school, ramanathapuram, kalam went on to attend saint joseph's college, tiruchirappalli, then affiliated with the university of madras, from where he graduated in physics in 1954. he moved to madras in 1955 to study aerospace engineering in madras institute of technology. while kalam was working on a senior class project, the dean was dissatisfied with his lack of progress and threatened to revoke his scholarship unless the project was finished within the next three days. kalam met the deadline, impressing the dean, who later said to him, "i was putting you under stress and asking you to meet a difficult deadline". he narrowly missed achieving his dream of becoming a fighter pilot, as he placed ninth in qualifiers, and only eight positions were available in the iaf.


== career as a scientistedit ==

after graduating from the madras institute of technology in 1960, kalam joined the aeronautical development establishment of the defence research and development organisation (drdo) as a scientist. he started his career by designing a small hovercraft, but remained unconvinced by his choice of a job at drdo. kalam was also part of the incospar committee working under vikram sarabhai, the renowned space scientist. in 1969, kalam was transferred to the indian space research organisation (isro) where he was the project director of india's first satellite launch vehicle (slv-iii) which successfully deployed the rohini satellite in near-earth orbit in july 1980; kalam had first started work on an expandable rocket project independently at drdo in 1965. in 1969, kalam received the government's approval and expanded the programme to include more engineers.

in 1963 64, he visited nasa's langley research center in hampton, virginia; goddard space flight center in greenbelt, maryland; and wallops flight facility. between the 1970s and 1990s, kalam made an effort to develop the polar satellite launch vehicle (pslv) and slv-iii projects, both of which proved to be successful.
kalam was invited by raja ramanna to witness the country's first nuclear test smiling buddha as the representative of tbrl, even though he had not participated in its development. in the 1970s, kalam also directed two projects, project devil and project valiant, which sought to develop ballistic missiles from the technology of the successful slv programme. despite the disapproval of the union cabinet, prime minister indira gandhi allotted secret funds for these aerospace projects through her discretionary powers under kalam's directorship. kalam played an integral role convincing the union cabinet to conceal the true nature of these classified aerospace projects. his research and educational leadership brought him great laurels and prestige in the 1980s, which prompted the government to initiate an advanced missile programme under his directorship. kalam and dr v s arunachalam, metallurgist and scientific adviser to the defence minister, worked on the suggestion by the then defence minister, r. venkataraman on a proposal for simultaneous development of a quiver of missiles instead of taking planned missiles one after another. r venkatraman was instrumental in getting the cabinet approval for allocating  388 crores for the mission, named integrated guided missile development programme (igmdp) and appointed kalam as the chief executive. kalam played a major part in developing many missiles under the mission including agni, an intermediate range ballistic missile and prithvi, the tactical surface-to-surface missile, although the projects have been criticised for mismanagement and cost and time overruns.
kalam served as the chief scientific adviser to the prime minister and the secretary of the defence research and development organisation from july 1992 to december 1999. the pokhran-ii nuclear tests were conducted during this period in which he played an intensive political and technological role. kalam served as the chief project coordinator, along with rajagopala chidambaram, during the testing phase. media coverage of kalam during this period made him the country's best known nuclear scientist. however, the director of the site test, k santhanam, said that the thermonuclear bomb had been a "fizzle" and criticisied kalam for issuing an incorrect report. both kalam and chidambaram dismissed the claims.
in 1998, along with cardiologist soma raju, kalam developed a low cost coronary stent, named the "kalam-raju stent". in 2012, the duo designed a rugged tablet computer for health care in rural areas, which was named the "kalam-raju tablet".


== presidencyedit ==
kalam served as the 11th president of india, succeeding k. r. narayanan. he won the 2002 presidential election with an electoral vote of 922,884, surpassing the 107,366 votes won by lakshmi sahgal. his term lasted from 25 july 2002 to 25 july 2007.
on 10 june 2002, the national democratic alliance (nda) which was in power at the time, expressed that they would nominate kalam for the post of president, and both the samajwadi party and the nationalist congress party backed his candidacy. after the samajwadi party announced its support for kalam, narayanan chose not to seek a second term in office, leaving the field clear. kalam said of the announcement of his candidature:

i am really overwhelmed. everywhere both in internet and in other media, i have been asked for a message. i was thinking what message i can give to the people of the country at this juncture.

on 18 june, kalam filed his nomination papers in the indian parliament, accompanied by vajpayee and his senior cabinet colleagues.

the polling for the presidential election began on 15 july 2002 in parliament and the state assemblies, with the media claiming that the election was a one-sided affair and kalam's victory was a foregone conclusion; the count was held on 18 july. kalam became the 11th president of the republic of india in an easy victory, and moved into the rashtrapati bhavan after he was sworn in on 25 july. kalam was the third president of india to have been honoured with a bharat ratna, india's highest civilian honour, before becoming the president. dr sarvepalli radhakrishnan (1954) and dr zakir hussain (1963) were the earlier recipients of bharat ratna who later became the president of india. he was also the first scientist and the first bachelor to occupy rashtrapati bhawan.
during his term as president, he was affectionately known as the people's president, saying that signing the office of profit bill was the toughest decision he had taken during his tenure. kalam was criticised for his inaction in deciding the fate of 20 out of the 21 mercy petitions submitted to him during his tenure. article 72 of the constitution of india empowers the president of india to grant pardons, and suspend or commute the death sentence of convicts on death row. kalam acted on only one mercy plea in his five-year tenure as president, rejecting the plea of rapist dhananjoy chatterjee, who was later hanged. perhaps the most notable plea was from afzal guru, a kashmiri terrorist who was convicted of conspiracy in the december 2001 attack on the indian parliament and was sentenced to death by the supreme court of india in 2004. while the sentence was scheduled to be carried out on 20 october 2006, the pending action on his mercy plea resulted in him remaining on death row. he also took the controversial decision to impose president's rule in bihar in 2005.
in september 2003, in an interactive session in pgi chandigarh, kalam supported the need of uniform civil code in india, keeping in view the population of the country.
at the end of his term, on 20 june 2007, kalam expressed his willingness to consider a second term in office provided there was certainty about his victory in the 2007 presidential election. however, two days later, he decided not to contest the presidential election again stating that he wanted to avoid involving rashtrapati bhavan from any political processes. he did not have the support of the left parties, shiv sena and upa constituents, to receive a renewed mandate.
nearing the expiry of the term of the 12th president pratibha patil on 24 july 2012, media reports in april claimed that kalam was likely to be nominated for his second term. after the reports, social networking sites witnessed a number of people supporting his candidature. the bjp potentially backed his nomination, saying that the party would lend their support if the trinamool congress, samajwadi party and indian national congress proposed him for the 2012 presidential election. a month ahead of the election, mulayam singh yadav and mamata banerjee also expressed their support for kalam. days afterwards, mulayam singh yadav backed out, leaving mamata banerjee as the solitary supporter. on 18 june 2012, kalam declined to contest the 2012 presidential poll. he said of his decision not to do so:

many, many citizens have also expressed the same wish. it only reflects their love and affection for me and the aspiration of the people. i am really overwhelmed by this support. this being their wish, i respect it. i want to thank them for the trust they have in me.


== post-presidencyedit ==
after leaving office, kalam became a visiting professor at the indian institute of management shillong, the indian institute of management ahmedabad, and the indian institute of management indore; an honorary fellow of indian institute of science, bangalore; chancellor of the indian institute of space science and technology thiruvananthapuram; professor of aerospace engineering at anna university; and an adjunct at many other academic and research institutions across india. he taught information technology at the international institute of information technology, hyderabad, and technology at banaras hindu university and anna university.
in may 2012, kalam launched a programme for the youth of india called the what can i give movement, with a central theme of defeating corruption.
in 2011, kalam was criticised by civil groups over his stand on the koodankulam nuclear power plant; he supported the establishment of the nuclear power plant and was accused of not speaking with the local people. the protesters were hostile to his visit as they perceived to him to be a pro-nuclear scientist and were unimpressed by the assurances provided by him regarding the safety features of the plant.


== deathedit ==

on 27 july 2015, kalam travelled to shillong to deliver a lecture on "creating a livable planet earth" at the indian institute of management shillong. at around 6:35 p.m. ist, only five minutes into his lecture, he collapsed. he was rushed to the nearby bethany hospital in a critical condition; upon arrival, he lacked a pulse or any other signs of life. despite being placed in the intensive care unit, kalam was confirmed dead of a sudden cardiac arrest at 7:45 p.m ist. his last words, to his aide srijan pal singh, were reportedly: "funny guy! are you doing well?"
following his death, kalam's body was airlifted in an indian air force helicopter from shillong to guwahati, from where it was flown to new delhi on the morning of 28 july in an air force c-130j hercules. the flight landed at palam air base that afternoon and was received by the president, the prime minister, chief minister of delhi arvind kejriwal, and the three service chiefs of the indian armed forces, who laid wreaths on kalam's body. his body was then placed on a gun carriage draped with the indian flag and taken to his delhi residence at 10 rajaji marg; there, the public and numerous dignitaries paid homage, including former prime minister manmohan singh, congress president sonia gandhi and vice-president rahul gandhi, and uttar pradesh chief minister akhilesh yadav.
on the morning of 29 july, kalam's body, wrapped in the indian flag, was taken to palam air base and flown to madurai in an air force c-130j aircraft, arriving at madurai airport that afternoon. his body was received at the airport by the three service chiefs and national and state dignitaries, including cabinet ministers manohar parrikar, venkaiah naidu, pon radhakrishnan and the governors of tamil nadu and meghalaya, k rosaiah and v. shanmuganathan. after a brief ceremony, kalam's body was flown by air force helicopter to the town of mandapam, from where it was taken in an army truck to his hometown of rameswaram. upon arriving at rameswaram, his body was displayed in an open area in front of the local bus station to allow the public to pay their final respects until 8 p.m. that evening.
on 30 july 2015, the former president was laid to rest at rameswaram's pei karumbu ground with full state honours. over 350,000 people attended the last rites, including the prime minister, the governor of tamil nadu and the chief ministers of karnataka, kerala and andhra pradesh.


=== reactionsedit ===

india reacted to kalam's death with an outpouring of grief; numerous tributes were paid to the former president across the nation and on social media. the government of india declared a seven-day state mourning period as a mark of respect. president pranab mukherjee, vice president hamid ansari, home minister rajnath singh, and other leaders condoled the former president's demise. prime minister narendra modi said "his [kalam's] death is a great loss to the scientific community. he took india to great heights. he showed the way." former prime minister dr. manmohan singh, who had served as prime minister under kalam, said, "our country has lost a great human being who made phenomenal contributions to the promotion of self reliance in defence technologies. i worked very closely with dr. kalam as prime minister and i greatly benefited from his advice as president of our country. his life and work will be remembered for generations to come." isro chairman a. s. kiran kumar called his former colleague "a great personality and a gentleman", while former chairman g. madhavan nair described kalam as "a global leader" for whom "the downtrodden and poor people were his priority. he always had a passion to convey what is in his mind to the young generation", adding that his death left a vacuum which none could fill.
south asian leaders expressed condolences and lauded the late statesman. the bhutanese government ordered the country's flags to fly at half-staff to mourn kalam's death, and lit 1000 butter lamps in homage. bhutanese prime minister tshering tobgay expressed deep sadness, saying kalam "was a leader greatly admired by all people, especially the youth of india who have referred to him as the people's president". bangladesh prime minister sheikh hasina described kalam as "a rare combination of a great statesman, acclaimed scientist, and a source of inspiration to the young generation of south asia" and termed his death an "irreparable loss to india and beyond". bangladesh nationalist party chief khaleda zia said "as a nuclear scientist, he engaged himself in the welfare of the people". ashraf ghani, the president of afghanistan, called kalam "an inspirational figure to millions of people," noting that "we have a lot to learn from his life". nepalese prime minister sushil koirala recalled kalam's scientific contributions to india: "nepal has lost a good friend and i have lost an honoured and ideal personality." the president of pakistan, mamnoon hussain, and prime minister of pakistan nawaz sharif also expressed their grief and condolences on his passing. the president of sri lanka, maithripala sirisena, also expressed his condolences. "dr. kalam was a man of firm conviction and indomitable spirit, and i saw him as an outstanding statesman of the world. his death is an irreparable loss not only to india but to the entire world." maldivian president abdulla yameen and vice president ahmed adheeb condoled kalam's passing, with yameen naming him as a close friend of the maldives who would continue to be an inspiration to indians and generations of south asians. former president maumoon abdul gayoom, who had made an official visit to india during kalam's presidency, termed his demise as a great loss to all of humankind. the commander-in-chief of the myanmar armed forces, senior general min aung hlaing, expressed condolences on behalf of the myanmar government. the dalai lama expressed his sadness and offered condolences and prayers, calling kalam's death "an irreparable loss".
kathleen wynne, the premier of ontario, which kalam had visited on numerous occasions, expressed "deepest condolences ... as a respected scientist, he played a critical role in the development of the indian space program. as a committed educator, he inspired millions of young people to achieve their very best. and as a devoted leader, he gained support both at home and abroad, becoming known as 'the people's president'. i join our indo canadian families, friends, and neighbours in mourning the passing of this respected leader." united states president barack obama extended "deepest condolences to the people of india on the passing of former indian president dr. apj abdul kalam", and highlighted his achievements as a scientist and as a statesman, notably his role in strengthening u.s. india relations and increasing space cooperation between the two nations. "suitably named 'the people's president', dr. kalam's humility and dedication to public service served as an inspiration to millions of indians and admirers around the world." russian president vladimir putin expressed sincere condolences and conveyed his sympathy and support "to the near and dear ones of the deceased leader, to the government, and entire people of india". he remarked on kalam's outstanding "personal contribution to the social, economic, scientific, and technical progress of india and in ensuring its national security," adding that dr. kalam would be remembered as a "consistent exponent of closer friendly relations between our nations, who has done a lot for cementing mutually beneficial russian indian cooperation." other international leaders including former indonesian president susilo bambang yudhoyono, malaysian prime minister najib razak, singaporean prime minister lee hsien loong, president of the united arab emirates sheikh khalifa bin zayed al nahyan, and vice president and prime minister of the united arab emirates and emir of dubai sheikh mohammed bin rashid al maktoum also paid tribute to kalam. in a special gesture, secretary-general of the united nations ban ki-moon visited the permanent mission of india to the un and signed a condolence book. "the outpouring of grief around the world is a testament of the respect and inspiration he has garnered during and after his presidency. the un joins the people of india in sending our deepest condolences for this great statesman. may he rest in peace and eternity", ban wrote in his message.


== personal lifeedit ==
kalam was the youngest of five siblings, the eldest of whom was a sister, asim zohra (d. 1997), followed by three elder brothers: mohammed muthu meera lebbai maraikayar (b. 1916; aged 99), mustafa kamal (d. 1999) and kasim mohammed (d. 1995). he was extremely close to his elder siblings and their extended families throughout his life, and would regularly send small sums of money to his older relations, himself remaining a life-long bachelor.
kalam was noted for his integrity and his simple lifestyle. he never owned a television, and was in the habit of rising at 6:30 or 7 a.m and sleeping by 2 a.m. his few personal possessions included his books, his veena, some articles of clothing, a cd player and a laptop; at his death, he left no will, and his possessions went to his eldest brother, who survived him.
in the 2011 hindi film i am kalam, kalam is portrayed as a positive influence on a poor but bright rajasthani boy named chhotu, who renames himself kalam in honour of his idol.


== religious and spiritual viewsedit ==
religion and spirituality were very important to kalam throughout his life. in fact, he made his own spiritual journey the subject of his final book, transcendence: my spiritual experiences with pramukh swamiji.


=== islamedit ===
a proud and practicing muslim, daily nam z and fasting during ramadan were integral to kalam's life. his father, the imam of a mosque in his hometown of rameswaram, had strictly instilled these islamic customs in his children. his father had also impressed upon the young kalam the value of interfaith respect and dialogue. as kalam recalled: "every evening, my father a.p. jainulabdeen, an imam, pakshi lakshmana sastry, the head priest of the ramanathaswamy hindu temple, and a church priest used to sit with hot tea and discuss the issues concerning the island." such early exposure convinced kalam that the answers to india's multitudinous issues lay in "dialogue and cooperation" among the country's religious, social, and political leaders. moreover, since kalam believed that "respect for other faiths" was one of the key cornerstones of islam, he was fond of saying: "for great men, religion is a way of making friends; small people make religion a fighting tool."


=== syncretismedit ===
one component of kalam's widespread popularity among diverse groups in india, and an enduring aspect of his legacy, is the syncretism he embodied in appreciating various elements of the many spiritual and cultural traditions of india. in addition to his faith in the koran and islamic practice, kalam was well-versed in hindu traditions; he learnt sanskrit, read the bhagavad gita and he was a vegetarian. kalam also enjoyed writing tamil poetry, playing the veena (a south indian string instrument), and listening to carnatic devotional music every day. in 2002, in one of his early speeches to parliament after becoming president, he reiterated his desire for a more united india, stating that "[d]uring the last one year i met a number of spiritual leaders of all religions ... [and] i would like to endeavour to work for bringing about unity of minds among the divergent traditions of our country". describing kalam as a unifier of diverse traditions, congress leader shashi tharoor stated, "kalam was a complete indian, an embodiment of the eclecticism of india's heritage of diversity". bjp leader l. k. advani concurred that kalam was "the best exemplar of the idea of india, one who embodied the best of all the cultural and spiritual traditions that signify india's unity in immense diversity. this was most strikingly evident in the last book he wrote, presciently titled transcendence: my spiritual experiences with pramukh swami.


=== pramukh swami as guruedit ===
kalam's desire to meet spiritual leaders to help create a more prosperous, spiritual, and unified india was what initially led him to meet pramukh swami, the hindu guru of the baps swaminarayan sampradaya, who kalam would come to consider his ultimate spiritual teacher and guru. the first of eight meetings between kalam and pramukh swami over a fourteen-year period took place on 30 june 2001 in new delhi, during which kalam described being immediately drawn to pramukh swami's simplicity and spiritual purity. kalam stated that he was inspired by pramukh swami throughout their numerous interactions. one such incident occurred the day following the terrorist attack on baps' akshardham, gandhinagar complex in september 2002; pramukh swami prayed for, and sprinkled holy water upon, the sites of all of the deceased, including the terrorists, demonstrating the view that all human life is sacred. kalam recalled being moved by pramukh swami's equanimity and compassion, citing this incident as one of his motivations for writing transcendence: my spiritual experiences with pramukh swamiji. summarizing the effect that pramukh swami had on him, kalam stated that "[pramukh swami] has indeed transformed me. he is the ultimate stage of the spiritual ascent in my life ... pramukh swamiji has put me in a god-synchronous orbit. no manoeuvres are required any more, as i am placed in my final position in eternity." following kalam's death a month after his final book was released, co-author arun tiwari pointed to this passage as potentially prophetic and premonitory of kalam's death.


== writingsedit ==

in his book india 2020, kalam strongly advocated an action plan to develop india into a "knowledge superpower" and a developed nation by the year 2020. he regarded his work on india's nuclear weapons programme as a way to assert india's place as a future superpower.

i have identified five areas where india has a core competence for integrated action: (1) agriculture and food processing; (2) education and healthcare; (3) information and communication technology; (4) infrastructure, reliable and quality electric power, surface transport and infrastructure for all parts of the country; and (5) self-reliance in critical technologies. these five areas are closely inter-related and if advanced in a coordinated way, will lead to food, economic and national security.

kalam describes a "transformative moment" in his life when he asked pramukh swami, the guru of the baps swaminarayan sampradaya, how india might realize this five-pronged vision of development.  pramukh swami's answer to add a sixth area developing faith in god and spirituality to overcome the current climate of crime and corruption became the spiritual vision for the next 15 years kalam's life, which he describes in his final book, transcendence: my spiritual experiences with pramukh swamiji, published just a month before his death.
it was reported that there was considerable demand in south korea for translated versions of books authored by him.
kalam took an active interest in other developments in the field of science and technology, including a research programme for developing biomedical implants. he also supported open source technology over proprietary software, predicting that the use of free software on a large scale would bring the benefits of information technology to more people.
kalam set a target of interacting with 100,000 students during the two years after his resignation from the post of scientific adviser in 1999. he explained, "i feel comfortable in the company of young people, particularly high school students. henceforth, i intend to share with them experiences, helping them to ignite their imagination and preparing them to work for a developed india for which the road map is already available."


== awards and honoursedit ==
kalam received honorary doctorates from 40 universities. the government of india honoured him with the padma bhushan in 1981 and the padma vibhushan in 1990 for his work with isro and drdo and his role as a scientific advisor to the government. in 1997, kalam received india's highest civilian honour, the bharat ratna, for his contribution to the scientific research and modernisation of defence technology in india. in 2013, he was the recipient of the von braun award from the national space society "to recognize excellence in the management and leadership of a space-related project".
following his death, kalam received numerous tributes. the tamil nadu state government announced that his birthday, 15 october, would be observed across the state as "youth renaissance day;" the state government further instituted the "dr. a.p.j. abdul kalam award," constituting an 8-gram gold medal, a certificate and  500,000 (us$7,500). the award will be awarded annually on independence day, beginning in 2015, to residents of the state with achievements in promoting scientific growth, the humanities or the welfare of students.
on occasion of his birth day (2015) , cbse has given the topics on his name in the cbse expression series .
several educational and scientific institutions and other locations were renamed or named in honour of kalam following his death:


=== educational and scientific institutionsedit ===
an agricultural college at kishanganj, bihar, was renamed the "dr. kalam agricultural college, kishanganj" by the bihar state government on the day of kalam's funeral. the state government also announced it would name a proposed science city after kalam.
uttar pradesh technical university (uptu) was renamed "a.p.j. abdul kalam technical university" by the uttar pradesh state government.
a new research institute for digestive diseases research in travancore.
a new academic complex at mahatma gandhi university in kerala.
a new science centre and planetarium in lawspet, puducherry.


=== islandedit ===
wheeler island, a national missile test site in odisha, was renamed abdul kalam island in september 2015.


=== other awards and honoursedit ===


== books and documentariesedit ==
kalam's writings
developments in fluid mechanics and space technology by a p j abdul kalam and roddam narasimha; indian academy of sciences, 1988
india 2020: a vision for the new millennium by a p j abdul kalam, y. s. rajan; new york, 1998.
wings of fire: an autobiography by a p j abdul kalam, arun tiwari; universities press, 1999.
ignited minds: unleashing the power within india by a p j abdul kalam; viking, 2002.
the luminous sparks by a p j abdul kalam, by; punya publishing pvt ltd, 2004.
mission india by a p j abdul kalam, paintings by manav gupta; penguin books, 2005
inspiring thoughts by a p j abdul kalam; rajpal & sons, 2007
indomitable spirit by a p j abdul kalam; rajpal and sons publishing
envisioning an empowered nation by a p j abdul kalam with a sivathanu pillai; tata mcgraw-hill, new delhi
you are born to blossom: take my journey beyond by a p j abdul kalam and arun tiwari; ocean books, 2011.
turning points: a journey through challenges by a p j abdul kalam; harper collins india, 2012.
target 3 billion by a p j abdul kalam and srijan pal singh; december 2011 | publisher penguin books.
my journey: (titled            - tamil) transforming dreams into actions by a p j abdul kalam; august 2013 by the rupa publication.
a manifesto for change: a sequel to india 2020 by a p j abdul kalam and v ponraj; july 2014 by harper collins.
forge your future: candid, forthright, inspiring by a p j abdul kalam; by rajpal and sons, 29 october 2014.
reignited: scientific pathways to a brighter future by a p j abdul kalam and srijan pal singh; by penguin india, 14 may 2015.
transcendence: my spiritual experiences with pramukh swamiji by a p j abdul kalam with arun tiwari; harpercollins publishers, june 2015
advantage india: from challenge to opportunity by a p j abdul kalam and srijan pal singh; harpercollins publishers,15 oct 2015.
biographies
eternal quest: life and times of dr kalam by s chandra; pentagon publishers, 2002.
president a p j abdul kalam by r k pruthi; anmol publications, 2002.
a p j abdul kalam: the visionary of india by k bhushan, g katyal; a p h pub corp, 2002.
a little dream (documentary film) by p. dhanapal; minveli media works private limited, 2008.
the kalam effect: my years with the president by p m nair; harper collins, 2008.
my days with mahatma abdul kalam by fr a k george; novel corporation, 2009.


== see alsoedit ==
list of presidents of india
indian presidential election, 2002
pokhran-ii


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
official website
vision   poem of dr. apj abdul kalam
wings of kalam - dr. apj abdul kalam followers community

abhinav singh bindra (born 28 september 1982, in dehradun) is an indian shooter and is a world and olympic champion in the 10 m air rifle event. by winning the gold in the 10 m air rifle event at the 2008 beijing olympic games, he became the first indian to win an individual gold medal at the olympic games. it was also india's first gold medal since 1980, when the men's field hockey team won the gold. he is the first and only indian to have held both the world and olympic titles at the same time, a feat he accomplished by capturing the gold medal at the 2008 olympic games in beijing, after having won the gold at the 2006 issf world shooting championships. abhinav won gold medal in 2014 commonwealth games at glasgow.
in 2014, abhinav bindra joined the gosports foundation, bangalore as a member of their board of advisors. in collaboration with the gosports foundation, he will also provide support to india's up and coming talented shooters through the abhinav bindra shooting development programme.


== career ==


=== early years ===
abhinav bindra was born in the home of punjabi sikh family. he studied at the doon school for two years before moving to st. stephen's school, chandigarh; he graduated from stephen's in 2000. his parents had an indoor shooting range installed at their home in patiala, punjab. his mentor was dr.amit bhattacharjee who has been closely associated with him since the beginning of his career. bhattacharjee and lt. col. dhillon (who was also his first coach) were the first ones to spot the potential in abhinav. bindra was the youngest indian participant at the 2000 olympic games. his current coach is a five-time olympic shooter gabriele b hlmann from basel, switzerland, with whom he trained in germany before the olympics.
in the 2000 olympics bindra achieved a score of 590, placing him 11th in the qualification round, meaning he did not qualify for the finals since only the top eight competed in the finals. after his disappointing performance, bindra said that he had no plans to retire from shooting.


=== notable international performance ===
at 15, abhinav bindra became the youngest participant in the 1998 commonwealth games. his breakthrough, though came when he won a bronze in the 2001 munich world cup with a new junior world record score of 597/600. bindra was also the youngest indian participant at the 2000 olympic games.
he won six gold medals at various international meets in 2001. in 2000 he was honoured with the arjuna award and the prestigious rajiv gandhi khel ratna award in 2001.
in the air rifle event at the 2002 commonwealth games, manchester, he won gold in the pairs event. bindra also won silver in the individual event.
in the 2004 athens olympics, despite breaking the olympic record bindra failed to win a medal. he scored 597 in the qualification round and was placed third behind qinan zhu (599   new olympic record) and li jie (598). in the finals, abhinav finished with 97.6 points, last in the field of eight, and was the only player below 100 points. his sub-par finals dropped him from third to seventh.
on 24 july 2006, bindra became the first indian shooter to win a world championship gold in zagreb. dr. karni singh's silver in 1962 was the previous best by an indian in a world championship meet.
at the 2006 melbourne commonwealth games, he won the gold in the pairs event and the bronze in the singles event. abhinav missed the 2006 asian games at doha because of a back injury.
after these successes he started suffering from a severe back injury, so much so that he was unable to compete or even lift a rifle for a year, upsetting his preparations for the beijing games. however, bindra put all speculation to rest, bringing india perhaps his biggest sporting glory ever. bindra booked his place in the 2008 olympics by winning the gold medal at the 2006 issf world shooting championships with a score of 699.1.
at the 2008 beijing olympics, abhinav bindra won the gold in the men's 10m air rifle event after shooting a total of 700.5. he scored 596 (fourth) in the qualifying round and out-scored all other shooters in the finals with a round of 104.5. in the finals, he started with a shot of 10.7, and none of his shots were below 10.0. bindra was tied with henri h kkinen heading into his final shot. bindra scored his highest of the finals   10.8 while hakkinen shot 9.7 to settle for the bronze medal. it has been alleged that abhinav bindra's gun was tampered with between the qualifying and final round of the event, though no official complaint was filed by the indian contingent.
this was india's first individual gold medal at the olympics, and the first gold in 28 years, since the men's field hockey team won the gold at the 1980 moscow olympics. bindra was rewarded by various indian state governments and private organisations for his achievement.
when the 2010 commonwealth games were held in new-delhi, abhinav bindra got the honour of being the indian contingent's flag-bearer at the opening ceremony. he also got the honour of taking the athletes' oath on behalf of the 6,700 participants from 71 countries and territories on that occasion. abhinav bindra along with gagan narang shot in unison to set a games record 1193 in 10m air rifle pair's event for men to win the first gold for india in the 19th commonwealth games. however the olympic champion had to settle for silver in the individual event. his countryman gagan narang, who shot a perfect 600 to equal his own world record in men's 10m individual air rifle qualification, won the gold.
abhinav bindra won the gold medal in the men's 10-metre air rifle event at the 12th asian shooting championships, which was held in doha qatar.
abhinav bindra lost in the qualification round in 2012 london olympics finishing with a score of 594 placing him in 16th, though his compatriot gagan narang made it to the finals in 3rd place, and went on to win the bronze medal for india, thereby opening the medal tally for india in london olympics 2012.
in 2014 commonwealth games at glasgow, abhinav bindra again won gold in the men s 10m air rifle singles event.


=== business career ===
he holds a b.b.a. (bachelor of business administration) from the university of colorado, us. bindra is the ceo of abhinav futuristics, the sole distributor of walther arms in india. abhinav has sponsorship tie-ups with samsung, bsnl and sahara group. he is also the brand ambassador by state-run steel authority of india ltd. and also a member of federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry (ficci) sports committee since 2010.


== personal life ==
harpersport published his autobiography, a shot at history: my obsessive journey to olympic gold which he co-authored with sportswriter rohit brijnath in october 2011. it was formally released by union sports minister, ajay maken on 27 october 2011 at a function in new delhi, thereafter the book went on to receive good reviews.


== awards and recognition ==
2000   arjuna award.
2001   rajiv gandhi khel ratna (india's highest sports award).
2009   padma bhushan.
2011   honorary lieutenant colonel by indian territorial army
awards for 2008 olympics gold medal
 15 million (us$230,000) by mittal champions trust
 5 million (us$75,000) cash prize by central govt
 2.5 million (us$38,000) cash prize by the state government of haryana.
 2.5 million (us$38,000) cash prize by the board of control for cricket in india
 1.5 million (us$23,000) cash prize by steel ministry of india
 1.1 million (us$17,000) cash prize by the state government of bihar. the patna indoor stadium will be renamed after abhinav bindra.
 1 million (us$15,000) prize by the state government of karnataka
 1 million (us$15,000) cash prize by s. amolak singh gakhal, chairman golds gym
 1 million (us$15,000) cash prize by chief minister of maharashtra state
 500000 (us$7,500) cash prize by state government of orissa
 500000 (us$7,500) cash prize by government of tamil nadu
 100000 (us$1,500) cash prize by the state government of chhattisgarh
 100000 (us$1,500) cash prize by the state government of madhya pradesh
a free lifetime railway pass by the railway ministry of india
a gold medal by the state government of kerala.
 1.5 million (us$23,000) cash award by pune municipal corporation.


== references ==


== further reading ==
pradhan, kunal (october 6, 2014). "the unlikely hero". india today 39 (40): 75. 


== external links ==
abhinav bindra's profile & records
official profile of abhinav bindra at the 2008 beijing olympics

rakshit shetty (born 6 june 1983) is an indian film actor and director who works in kannada cinema. he rose to fame with the 2013 film simple agi ondh love story in which he played the role of the lead male character. he turned into a director with the critically acclaimed film ulidavaru kandanthe (2014) also playing the lead role in the film.
the actor is from udupi, karnataka. he is an electronics and communication engineering graduate from nmam institute of technology, nitte. after the completion of his studies, he worked as a software professional for symphony services, for sometime. then he took to acting in movies, to pursue his passion.


== filmographyedit ==


== awards and nominationsedit ==


=== footnotesedit ===


== referencesedit ==

5. rakshit shetty's interview to newskarnataka.com


== external linksedit ==
rakshit shetty at the internet movie database

sir chandrasekhara venkata raman, frs (7 november 1888   21 november 1970) was an indian physicist, born in the former madras province, whose ground breaking work in the field of light scattering earned him the 1930 nobel prize for physics. he discovered that, when light traverses a transparent material, some of the deflected light changes in wavelength. this phenomenon is now called raman scattering and is the result of the raman effect. in 1954, he was honoured with the highest civilian award in india, the bharat ratna.


== early yearsedit ==
raman was born to a tamil brahmin iyer family in thiruvanaikaval, trichinopoly, present-day tiruchirapalli, madras presidency tamil nadu, in british india to parvati amma.


=== familyedit ===
raman's maternal grandfather, saptarshi sastri, was a sanskrit scholar who was learned in navya nyaya (modern logic). raman's father initially taught in a school in thiruvanaikaval, became a lecturer of mathematics and physics in mrs. a.v. narasimha rao college, vishakapatnam (then vishakapatnam) in the indian state of andhra pradesh, and later joined presidency college in madras (now chennai).


=== early educationedit ===
at an early age,raman moved to the city of visakhapatnam and studied at st. aloysius anglo-indian high school. raman passed his matriculation examination at the age of 11 and he passed his f.a. examination (equivalent to today's intermediate exam, puc/pdc and +2) with a scholarship at the age of 13.
in 1902, raman joined presidency college in madras where his father was a lecturer in mathematics and physics. in 1904 he passed his bachelor of arts (b.a.) examination: he stood first and won the gold medal in physics. in 1907 he gained his master of arts (m.a.) degree with the highest distinctions.


== careeredit ==
in 1917, raman resigned from his government service after he was appointed the first palit professor of physics at the university of calcutta. at the same time, he continued doing research at the indian association for the cultivation of science (iacs), calcutta, where he became the honorary secretary. raman used to refer to this period as the golden era of his career. many students gathered around him at the iacs and the university of calcutta.

on 28 february 1928, raman led experiments at the iacs with collaborators, including k. s. krishnan, on the scattering of light, when he discovered what now is called the raman effect. a detailed account of this period is reported in the biography by g. venkatraman. it was instantly clear that this discovery was of huge value. it gave further proof of the quantum nature of light. raman had a complicated professional relationship with k. s. krishnan, who surprisingly did not share the award, but is mentioned prominently even in the nobel lecture.
raman spectroscopy came to be based on this phenomenon, and ernest rutherford referred to it in his presidential address to the royal society in 1929. raman was president of the 16th session of the indian science congress in 1929. he was conferred a knighthood, and medals and honorary doctorates by various universities. raman was confident of winning the nobel prize in physics as well, but was disappointed when the nobel prize went to owen richardson in 1928 and to louis de broglie in 1929. he was so confident of winning the prize in 1930 that he booked tickets in july, even though the awards were to be announced in november, and would scan each day's newspaper for announcement of the prize, tossing it away if it did not carry the news. he did eventually win the 1930 nobel prize in physics "for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the raman effect". he was the first asian and first non-white to receive any nobel prize in the sciences. before him rabindranath tagore (also indian) had received the nobel prize for literature in 1913.
raman and suri bhagavantam discovered the quantum photon spin in 1932, which further confirmed the quantum nature of light.
raman had association with the banaras hindu university in varanasi; he attended the foundation ceremony of bhu and delivered lectures on "mathematics" and "some new paths in physics" during the lecture series organised at bhu from february 5 to 8, 1916. he also held the position of permanent visiting professor at bhu.
during his tenure at iisc, he recruited the talented electrical engineering student, g. n. ramachandran, who later went on to become a distinguished x-ray crystallographer.
raman also worked on the acoustics of musical instruments. he worked out the theory of transverse vibration of bowed strings, on the basis of superposition velocities. he was also the first to investigate the harmonic nature of the sound of the indian drums such as the tabla and the mridangam. he was also interested in the properties of other musical instruments based on forced vibrations such as the violin. he also investigated the propagation of sound in whispering galleries. raman's work on acoustics was an important prelude, both experimentally and conceptually, to his later work on optics and quantum mechanics.
raman and his student, nagendra nath, provided the correct theoretical explanation for the acousto-optic effect (light scattering by sound waves), in a series of articles resulting in the celebrated raman nath theory. modulators, and switching systems based on this effect have enabled optical communication components based on laser systems.
raman was succeeded by debendra mohan bose as the palit professor in 1932. in 1933, raman left iacs to join indian institute of science in bangalore as its first indian director. other investigations carried out by raman were experimental and theoretical studies on the diffraction of light by acoustic waves of ultrasonic and hypersonic frequencies (published 1934 1942), and those on the effects produced by x-rays on infrared vibrations in crystals exposed to ordinary light.
he also started the company called travancore chemical and manufacturing co. ltd. (now known as tcm limited) which manufactured potassium chlorate for the match industry in 1943 along with dr. krishnamurthy. the company subsequently established four factories in southern india. in 1947, he was appointed as the first national professor by the new government of independent india.
in 1948, raman, through studying the spectroscopic behaviour of crystals, approached in a new manner fundamental problems of crystal dynamics. he dealt with the structure and properties of diamond, the structure and optical behaviour of numerous iridescent substances (labradorite, pearly feldspar, agate, opal, and pearls). among his other interests were the optics of colloids, electrical and magnetic anisotropy, and the physiology of human vision.
raman retired from the indian institute of science in 1948 and established the raman research institute in bangalore, karnataka, a year later. he served as its director and remained active there until his death in 1970, in bangalore, at the age of 82.


== personal lifeedit ==
he was married on 6 may 1907 to lokasundari ammal (1892 1980). they had two sons, chandrasekhar and radio-astronomer radhakrishnan.
raman was the paternal uncle of subrahmanyan chandrasekhar, who later won the nobel prize in physics (1983) for his discovery of the chandrasekhar limit in 1931 and for his subsequent work on the nuclear reactions necessary for stellar evolution.


== achievementsedit ==
during a voyage to europe in 1921, raman noticed the blue colour of glaciers and the mediterranean sea. he was motivated to discover the reason for the blue colour. raman carried out experiments regarding the scattering of light by water and transparent blocks of ice which explained the phenomenon.
there is an event that served as the inspiration of the raman effect. on a december evening in 1927, raman's student k. s. krishnan (who later became the director of the national physical laboratory) gave him the news that professor compton had won the nobel prize for his studies of the scattering of x-rays. this led raman to theorize that if the compton effect is applicable for x-rays, then it may be for light also, and to devise some experiments.
raman employed monochromatic light from a mercury arc lamp which penetrated transparent material and was allowed to fall on a spectrograph to record its spectrum. he detected lines in the spectrum which he later called raman lines. he presented his theory at a meeting of scientists in bangalore on 16 march 1928, and won the nobel prize in physics in 1930.


== booksedit ==
for compact work, see: scientific papers of c. v. raman, s. ramaseshan (ed.).
vol. 1   scattering of light (ed. s. ramaseshan)
vol. 2   acoustics
vol. 3   optics
vol. 4   optics of minerals and diamond
vol. 5   physics of crystals
vol. 6   floral colours and visual perception


== honours and awardsedit ==

raman was honoured with a large number of honorary doctorates and memberships of scientific societies.
he was elected a fellow of the royal society early in his career (1924) and knighted in 1929.
in 1930 he won the nobel prize in physics.
in 1941 he was awarded the franklin medal.
in 1954 he was awarded the bharat ratna.
he was awarded the lenin peace prize in 1957. in 1998, the american chemical society and indian association for the cultivation of science recognised raman's discovery as an international historic chemical landmark.
india celebrates national science day on 28 february of every year to commemorate the discovery of the raman effect in 1928.


== archive of raman research papersedit ==
the raman research institute, founded by raman after his tenure at iisc, curates a collection of raman's research papers, and articles on the web.


== deathedit ==
at the end of october 1970, he collapsed in his laboratory, the valves of his heart having given way. he was moved to hospital and the doctors gave him four hours to live. he survived and after a few days refused to stay in the hospital as he preferred to die in the gardens of his institute surrounded by his flowers.
two days before raman died, he told one of his former students, "do not allow the journals of the academy to die, for they are the sensitive indicators of the quality of science being done in the country and whether science is taking root in it or not." that same evening, raman met with the board of management of his institute and discussed (from his bed) with them any proceedings with regards to the institute s management. raman died from natural causes early next morning on 21 november 1970.


== posthumous recognition and contemporary referencesedit ==
on 7 november 2013, a google doodle honoured raman on the 125th anniversary of his birthday.
a road in india's capital, new delhi, is named c. v. raman marg.
an area in eastern bangalore is called cv raman nagar.
the road running north of the national seminar complex in bangalore is named c. v. raman road.
a building at the indian institute of science in bangalore is named the raman building.
a hospital in eastern bangalore on 80 ft. rd. is named the sir c v raman hospital.
in star trek: the next generation, there is a united federation of planets starfleet ship named after raman.


== see alsoedit ==
raman amplification
raman (crater)
raman laser
raman optical activity
raman research institute
resonance raman spectroscopy


== referencesedit ==


== further readingedit ==
banerjee, somaditya (2014). "c. v. raman and colonial physics: acoustics and the quantum". physics in perspective 16 (2): 146 178. bibcode:2014php....16..146b. doi:10.1007/s00016-014-0134-8. 
miller, foil a.; kauffman, george (1989). "c. v. raman and the discovery of the raman effect". journal of chemical education 66 (10): 795 801. bibcode:1989jched..66..795m. doi:10.1021/ed066p795. 
ramaseshan s: c.v.raman. journal of madras university, section b, sept.1983, 46(1): 1 16.
scientific papers of cv raman, ed. s ramaseshan, indian academy of sciences, bangalore 1988.
sri kantha s: the discovery of the raman effect and its impact in biological sciences. european spectroscopy news, aug/sept. 1988, no.80, 20, 22, 24 & 26.
sri kantha s: raman's prize. nature, 1989; 340: 672.
fabelinski i,l. priority and the raman effect. nature, 1990; 343: 686.
"cv raman centennial issue". journal of the indian institute of science 68 (11 12). 1988. 


== external linksedit ==
the nobel prize in physics 1930 at the nobel foundation
nobel prize internet archive
path creator   c.v. raman
nobel lecture
archive of all scientific papers of c.v. raman
raman effect: fingerprinting the universe
the quantum indians: film on raman, bose and saha on youtube by raja choudhury and produced by psbt and indian public diplomacy.

milkha singh (born around the 1930s), also known as the flying sikh, is a former indian track and field sprinter who was introduced to the sport while serving in the indian army. he was the only indian male athlete to win an individual athletics gold medal at a commonwealth games until vikas gowda won the discus gold medal at the 2014 commonwealth games. he also won gold medals in the 1958 and 1962 asian games. he represented india in the 1956 summer olympics in melbourne, the 1960 summer olympics in rome and the 1964 summer olympics in tokyo. he was awarded the padma shri, india's fourth-highest civilian honour, in recognition of his sporting achievements.
the race for which singh is best remembered is his fourth-place finish in the 400 metres final at the 1960 olympic games, which he had entered as one of the favourites. he led the race till the 200m mark before easing off, allowing others to pass him. various records were broken in the race, which required a photo-finish and saw american otis davis being declared the winner by one-hundredth of a second over german carl kaufmann. singh's fourth-place time of 45.73 became the indian national record and held for almost 41 years.
from beginnings that saw him orphaned and displaced during the partition of india, singh has become a sporting icon in his country. in 2008, journalist rohit brijnath described singh as "the finest athlete india has ever produced". in july 2012, the independent said that "india's most revered olympian is a gallant loser" and noted the paucity of success   20 medals   achieved by indian competitors in the olympic games despite the country having a population in excess of one billion.


== early life ==
milkha singh was born on 20 november 1929 according to records in pakistan, although other official records various state 17 october 1935 and 20 november 1935. his birthplace was govindpura, a village 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) from muzaffargarh city in punjab province, british india (now muzaffargarh district, pakistan) in a sikh rathore rajput family. he was one of 15 siblings, eight of whom died before the partition of india. he was orphaned during the partition, when his parents, a brother and two sisters were killed in the violence that ensued. he witnessed these killings.
escaping the troubles in punjab, where killings of hindus and sikhs were continuing, by moving to delhi, india, in 1947, singh lived for a short time with a married sister and was briefly imprisoned at tihar jail for travelling on a train without a ticket. his sister, ishvar, sold some jewellery to obtain his release. he spent some time at a refugee camp in purana quila and at a resettlement colony in shahdara, both in delhi.
singh became disenchanted with his life and considered becoming a dacoit but was instead persuaded by a brother, malkhan, to attempt recruitment to the indian army. he successfully gained entrance on his fourth attempt, in 1951, and while stationed at the electrical mechanical engineering centre in secunderabad he was introduced to athletics. he had run the 10 km distance to and from school as a child and was selected by the army for special training in athletics after finishing sixth in a compulsory cross-country run for new recruits. singh has acknowledged how the army introduced him to sport, saying that "i came from a remote village, i didn't know what running was, or the olympics".


== international career ==
he represented india in the 200m and 400m competitions of the 1956 melbourne olympic games. his inexperience meant that he did not progress from the heat stages but a meeting with the eventual 400m champion at those games, charles jenkins, both inspired him to greater things and provided him with information about training methods.
in 1958, singh set records for the 200m and 400m in the national games of india, held at cuttack, and also won gold medals in the same events at the asian games. he then won a gold medal in the 400m (440 yards at this time) competition at the 1958 british empire and commonwealth games with a time of 46.6 seconds. this latter achievement made him the first gold medalist at the commonwealth games from independent india. before vikas gowda won the gold in 2014, milkha was the only indian male to have won an individual athletics gold medal at those games.
singh was persuaded by jawaharlal nehru to set aside his memories of the partition era to race successfully in 1960 against abdul khaliq in pakistan, where a post-race comment by the then general ayub khan led to him acquiring the nickname of the flying sikh. some sources say that he set a world record of 45.8 seconds in france, shortly before the rome olympics in the same year but the official report of the games lists the record holder as lou jones, who ran 45.2 at los angeles in 1956. at those olympics, he was involved in a close-run final race in the 400m competition, where he was placed fourth. singh had beaten all the leading contenders other than otis davis, and a medal had been anticipated because of his good form. however, he made an error when leading the race at 250m, slowing down in the belief that his pace could not be sustained and looking round at his fellow competitors. singh believes that these errors caused him to lose his medal opportunity and they are his "worst memory". davis, carl kaufmann and malcolm spence all passed him, and a photo-finish resulted. davis and kaufman were both timed at a world-record breaking 44.9 seconds, while spence and singh went under the pre-games olympic record of 45.9 seconds, set in 1952 by george rhoden and herb mckenley, with times of 45.5 and 45.6 seconds, respectively. the age noted in 2006 that "milkha singh is the only indian to have broken an olympic track record. unfortunately he was the fourth man to do so in the same race" but the official olympic report notes that davis had already equalled the rhoden/mckenley olympic record in the quarter-finals and surpassed it with a time of 45.5 seconds in the semi-finals.
at the 1962 asian games, held in jakarta, singh won gold in the 400m and in the 4 x 400m relay. he attended the 1964 olympic games in tokyo, where he was entered to compete in the 400m, the 4 x 100m relay and the 4 x 400m relay. he did not take part in either the 400m or the 4 x 100m relay and the indian team of milkha singh, makhan singh, amrit pal and ajmer singh were eliminated when they finished fourth in the heat stages of the 4 x 400m.
there have been claims that singh won 77 of his 80 races, but these are spurious. the number of races in which he participated is not verified, nor is the number of victories, but he lost a 400m race at the 1964 national games in calcutta to makhan singh and he did not finish first in any of his four races at the 1960 olympic games or the aforementioned qualification races at the 1956 olympics.
singh's time in the 1960 olympics 400m final, which was run on a cinder track, set a national record that stood until 1998 when paramjit singh exceeded it on a synthetic track and with fully automatic timing that recorded 45.70 seconds. although singh's olympic result of 45.6 seconds had been hand-timed, an electronic system at those games had determined his record to be 45.73.


== later life ==
milkha singh was promoted from the rank of sepoy to junior commissioned officer in recognition of his successes in the 1958 asian games. he subsequently became director of sports in the punjab ministry of education, from which post he had retired by 1998.
singh had been awarded the padma shri following his success in 1958. in 2001, he turned down an offer of the arjuna award from the indian government, arguing that it was intended to recognise young sports people and not those such as him. he also thought that the award was being inappropriately given to people who had little notable involvement as active sports people at all. he said that "i have been clubbed with sportspersons who are nowhere near the level that i had achieved" and that the award had become devalued. when he scheduled to share his wealth experience in a college in goa on 25th august 2014, he also spoke "the awards nowadays are distributed like 'prasad' in a temple. why should one be honored when he or she has not achieved the benchmark for the award? i rejected the arjuna i was offered after i received the padma shree. it was like being offered an ssc certificate after securing a masters degree."
all of singh's medals have been donated to the nation. they were displayed at the jawaharlal nehru stadium in new delhi but later moved to a sports museum in patiala, where a pair of running shoes that he wore in rome are also displayed. in 2012, he donated the adidas shoes that he had worn in the 1960 400m final to a charity auction organised by actor rahul bose.
singh and his daughter, sonia sanwalka, co-wrote his autobiography, titled the race of my life (2013). the book inspired bhaag milkha bhaag, a 2013 biographical film of singh's life. singh sold the movie rights for one rupee but inserted a clause stating that a share of the profits would be given to the milkha singh charitable trust. the trust was founded in 2003 with the aim of assisting poor and needy sportspeople.


== family ==
as of 2012, singh lives in chandigarh. he met nirmal kaur,a former captain of the indian women's volleyball team in ceylon in 1955 and the couple married in 1962. they have three daughters and a son, the golfer jeev milkha singh. in 1999, they adopted the seven-year-old son of havildar bikram singh, who had died in the battle of tiger hill.


== records and honours ==
1st  1958 asian games   200 m
1st  1958 asian games   400 m
1st  1958 commonwealth games   440 yards
padma shri   1959
1st  1962 asian games   400 m
1st  1962 asian games   4 x 400 m relay
2nd  1964 calcutta national games   400 m


== references ==
notes

citations


== external links ==
"transcript of a webchat". rediff. 22 august 2001. 
"video of singh in the closing stages of the 440 yards (400m) race, 1958 british empire & commonwealth games". ibn.

raghunath anant mashelkar, also known as ramesh mashelkar. frs, freng, ficheme (marathi:                     (born 1 january 1943) is an indian chemical engineer and a former director general of the council of scientific & industrial research (csir), a chain of 38 publicly funded industrial research and development institutions in india.


== life and work ==
mashelkar studied at the university of bombay's department of chemical technology (now the institute of chemical technology, mumbai) where he obtained a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1966, later on a phd degree in 1969.
mashelkar is presently the president of global research alliance, a network of publicly funded research and development institutes from asia-pacific, south africa, europe and usa with over 60,000 scientists. he is the chairperson of india's national innovation foundation. he has been appointed as the first chairperson of academy of scientific and innovative research (acsir). he is also the chairman of the reliance innovation council formed by reliance industries limited, india.
mashelkar is the former president of the indian national science academy and the uk institution of chemical engineers (2007 08). he served for over eleven years as the director general of the council of scientific and industrial research,world's largest chain of publicly funded industrial r&d institutions, with thirty-eight laboratories and about 20,000 employees. he is the third indian engineer to have been elected as fellow of royal society (frs), london in the twentieth century. he was elected foreign associate of the united states national academy of sciences in 2005, only the 8th indian since 1863 to be selected. on 28 april 2008, he was elected as the foreign associate of australian academy of technological sciences and engineering. he is the first indian to have received this honour. he was elected foreign fellow of us national academy of engineering (2003), international fellow of royal academy of engineering, uk (1996), and fellow of world academy of art & science, usa (2000). twenty-six universities have honoured him with honorary doctorates, which include university of london, university of salford, university of pretoria, university of wisconsin milwaukee and delhi university.


== national contributions ==
in the post-liberalized india, mashelkar has played an important role in shaping india's science and technology policies. he was a member of the scientific advisory council to the prime minister and also of the scientific advisory committee to the cabinet set up by successive governments. he chaired twelve committees established to examine a variety of issues including higher education, national fuel policy, the drug regulatory system and the agriculture research system.


== original contributions to scientific and industrial research ==


=== overall contributions ===
mashelkar has made some path-breaking contributions in transport phenomena, particularly in thermodynamics of swelling, superswelling and shrinking polymers, modelling of polymerisation reactors, and engineering analysis of non-newtonian flows.


=== swelling, superswelling and shrinking polymers: transport & thermodynamics ===
mashelkar made the first molecular level interpretation of volume phase transitions in stimuli responsive gels through his lattice fluid hydrogels bonding models. these studies led to an understanding of the role of the subtle hydrophilic-hydrophobic balance in determining these transitions and also in molecular tailoring of these intelligent gels. mashelkar s original contributions, the first time ever, include biomimetic switching hydrogels (gelzymes), the discovery of molecular recognition induced macroscopic reversible morphological transitions and the discovery of self-healing phenomena in gels.
sensitivity, selectivity, mobility, memory, self-organization, self-healing and enzyme like activity are some of the attributes of living materials. synthetic hydrogels have been considered as potential candidates for mimicking life. among these, it was mashelkar, who demonstrated self-organization, self-healing & enzyme like activity for the first time.
mashelkar's studies on lifetime of a dissolving polymeric particle are pioneering. the phenomenon of particle size independent dissolution in polymeric systems and the crucial role of reptation dynamics was demonstrated for the first time. his contribution to the interpretation of the phenomenon of unusual retardation and enhancement in polymer dissolution is pathbreaking, since he was the first to show the crucial role of disengagement dynamics in dissolution, for which he provided a direct evidence through some probing in-situ nmr experiments. later, he showed the critical role of disengagement dynamics in other macromolecular transport processes.


=== engineering analysis of non-newtonian flows ===
mashelkar has contributed to the understanding of diverse phenomena of interest to engineers in rheologically complex fluids. these cover laminar secondary flows, turbulent flows, free convection and particle motion and deformation.
he investigated the motion and deformation of bubbles, drops and solid spheres in rheologically complex fluids. his original contributions include the discovery of the phenomenon of delayed separation in non-newtonian fluids, an original experimental discovery of the presence of dual wakes behind spheres moving in elastic liquids, anomalous wake formation in liquid drops and a new concept of "elastic boundary layer" to explain some anomalous visco-elastic flows.


=== role of energetic networks in non-newtonian flows ===
mashelkar developed the energetically crosslinked transient network (ectn) model, where the role of transient network formed by hydrogen bonds and its distinct difference from the physical networks was explicitly taken into account. he provided the direct evidence of the different character of such networks by doing in situ rheo-nmr experiments. the application of this model has resolved anomalies, which had baffled analysts for over three decades. these included double stress overshort, time dependent terminal velocities, unusually long restoration times in particle motion in viscoelastic media, etc.
the role of such energetic interactions in phase separation in flowing polymeric fluids was analysed to propose the concept of deformation induced hydrophobicity for the first time. further, the use of such energetic interaction based networks was made to create shear stable clusters of drag reducers. iop;oiu;iou;' his unified transient network models for analysing the wall-slip problem have opened up new vistas. his pioneering work on role of convective constraint release is the first ever direct molecular level interpretation of the wall-slip phenomenon.


=== modelling of industrial polymerisation reactors ===
mashelkar modelled the entire process of industrial polymerisation of polyethylene terephthalate (pet). many new important insights into the complex behaviour were obtained. the process of melt polycondensation of pet is accompanied by a desorption of a number of volatile side products accompanied by a series of reversible reactions. this diffusion   reaction problem poses conceptual as well as numerical difficulties in modelling. an apparently anomalous observation of the enhancement of polycondensation rate with increased side reactions, which had remained unexplained so far, was resolved. new strategies for enhancing productivity in industrial reactors emerged as a result of this work. this work has wide ranging impact globally on both theory and practice of polycondensation reactors.


== controversy ==
in the year 2005, the government of india set up a technical expert group under the chairmanship of mashelkar on patent laws, which was to opine on whether the amendments made in the indian patent law were trips compliant or not. the committee comprised, besides mashelkar legal luminaries on the issues of ipr, namely dr. n.r. madhava menon and prof. moolchand sharma. it also had luminaries from the scientific world, prof. goverdhan mehta and prof. asis dutta as members.
all the five members of the committee unanimously opined in their 'report of the technical expert group on patent law issues' that the amendments were not trips compliant, since article 27 of trips stated that no technology or field could be excluded from patenting as long as it met the basic criteria of novelty, non-obviousness and utility, whereas the indian patent amendments meant that only new chemical entities satisfying certain criteria could be patented.
this report led to controversy, which was voiced by the communist party of india (cpi-m), certain ngos and certain sections of the drugs and pharmaceutical industry of india, which were keen on maintaining a system that did not allow for incremental innovations to be patented in this sector. incidentally it was the cpi-m through its report titled left parties on amendments to the indian patent act, which had urged the government to bring in these changes, which were not part of the ordinance that was passed by the government.
the controversy got highlighted in the media, since some of the text in the report was reported, without attribution to the original source, especially that of prof. shamnaad basheer. there was an accusation of plagiarism. this accusation was highlighted through two editorial pieces published simultaneously in the times of india and the hindu.
according to prof. shamnaad basheer, this allegation was unfounded. as cited on his blog he wrote "it is unfortunate that my blog has been selectively quoted to support allegations that the committee 'plagiarised' from my report. this is not correct, as amply borne out by the last sentence in the blog: "to be fair to the committee, they did include the crux of my submission in an annex to their report." in other words, the committee did include the key points in my submission as an annexure, as they did with every other submission (about 24 in all) that was made to them. merriam webster defines  plagiarising  as "presenting as new and original an idea or product derived from an existing source." those with the patience to read the entire report including the annexures would have gathered that some of the committee s observations were borrowed from my report and not 'plagiarised'.
on 19 february 2007, mashelkar withdrew his report from the government in a letter addressed to the ministry of commerce and industry due to the alleged plagiarism, admitting to flaws in the report, and further clarifying that "this is the first time such a thing has happened."
cpi-m and patent law experts raised the mashelkar controversy in the indian parliament, demanding that the report be "trashed" and given the industry capture evident in his report, that the issues be referred to a joint standing committee.
however, the government of india did not accept this position and referred the report back to the technical expert group to re-examine and correct the inaccuracies.
however, subsequently, an article published in the times of india claimed plagiarisation in the book co-authored by shahid ali khan and mashelkar, in that certain paras from the text from british ipr expert graham dutfield were quoted without attribution. subsequently, mashelkar, while admitting this unfortunate error reported that the attribution was correctly given with the first possible opportunity that arose with the publication of the indian edition of the book in 2006.


== awards & recognition ==
mashelkar has received over fifty awards and honorary doctorates and is a member of numerous scientific bodies and committees. the president of india honoured mashelkar with padma shri (1991) and with padma bhushan (2000), which are two of the highest civilian honours in recognition of his contribution to nation building. he was appointed an international fellow of the royal academy of engineering in 1996. in 2013, he was awarded gomant vibhushan award, the highest civilian honour of the state of goa.
on 25 january 2014, he was awarded padma vibhushan, 2nd highest civilian honour of india by the president of india.


== references ==


== external links ==
raghunath mashelkar's personal website

not to be confused with homi k. bhabha.
homi jehangir bhabha (/ b  b  /; 30 october 1909   24 january 1966) was an indian nuclear physicist, founding director, and professor of physics at the tata institute of fundamental research. colloquially known as "father of indian nuclear programme", bhabha was the founding director of two well-known research institutions, namely the tata institute of fundamental research (tifr) and the trombay atomic energy establishment (now named after him); both sites were the cornerstone of indian development of nuclear weapons which bhabha also supervised as its director.


== careeredit ==
starting his nuclear physics career in great britain, bhabha had returned to india for his annual vacation before the start of world war ii in september 1939. war prompted him to remain in india and accepted a post of reader in physics at the indian institute of science in bengaluru, headed by nobel laureate c.v. raman. during this time, bhabha played a key role in convincing the congress party's senior leaders, most notably jawaharlal nehru who later served as india's first prime minister, to start the ambitious nuclear programme. as part of this vision, bhabha established the cosmic ray research unit at the institute, began to work on the theory of point particles movement, while independently conducting research on nuclear weapons in 1944. in 1945, he established the tata institute of fundamental research in bombay, and the atomic energy commission in 1948, serving as its first chairman. in 1948, nehru led the appointment of bhabha as the director of the nuclear program and tasked bhabha to develop the nuclear weapons soon after. in the 1950s, bhabha represented india in iaea conferences, and served as president of the united nations conference on the peaceful uses of atomic energy in geneva, switzerland in 1955. during this time, he intensified his lobbying for the development of nuclear weapons. soon after the sino-indo war, bhabha aggressively and publicly began to call for the nuclear weapons.
bhabha gained international prominence after deriving a correct expression for the probability of scattering positrons by electrons, a process now known as bhabha scattering. his major contribution included his work on compton scattering, r-process, and furthermore the advancement of nuclear physics. he was awarded padma bhushan by government of india in 1954. he later served as the member of the indian cabinet's scientific advisory committee and provided the pivotal role to vikram sarabhai to set up the indian national committee for space research. in january 1966, bhabha died in a plane crash near mont blanc, while heading to vienna, austria to attend a meeting of the international atomic energy agency's scientific advisory committee.


== early lifeedit ==
homi jehangir bhabha was born into a wealthy and prominent industrial parsi family, through which he was related to dinshaw maneckji petit, and dorabji tata. he was born on 30 october 1909, in an illustrious family with a long tradition of learning and service to the country. his father was jehangir hormusji bhabha, a well known lawyer and his mother was meheren <http://www.igcar.ernet.in/press_releases/press29.htm>. he received his early education at bombay's cathedral and john connon school and entered elphinstone college at age 15 after passing his senior cambridge examination with honors. his fathers name, jehangir, is from persian (       ), meaning "conqueror of the world."
he then attended the royal institute of science until 1927 before joining caius college of cambridge university. this was due to the insistence of his father and his uncle dorab tata, who planned for bhabha to obtain a degree in mechanical engineering from cambridge and then return to india, where he would join the tata steel mills in jamshedpur as a metallurgist.


== at the university of cambridgeedit ==
bhabha's father understood his son's predicament, and he agreed to finance his studies in mathematics provided that he obtain first class on his mechanical sciences tripos exam. bhabha took the tripos exam in june 1930 and passed with first class. afterwards, he embarked on his mathematical studies under paul dirac to complete the mathematics tripos. meanwhile, he worked at the cavendish laboratory while working towards his doctorate in theoretical physics. at the time, the laboratory was the center of a number of scientific breakthroughs. james chadwick had discovered the neutron, john cockcroft and ernest walton transmuted lithium with high-energy protons, and patrick blackett and giuseppe occhialini used cloud chambers to demonstrate the production of electron pairs and showers by gamma radiation.
during the 1931 1932 academic year, bhabha was awarded the salomons studentship in engineering. in 1932, he obtained first class on his mathematical tripos and was awarded the rouse ball traveling studentship in mathematics. during this time, the nuclear physics was attracting the greatest minds and it was one of the most significantly emerging fields as compared to theoretical physics, the opposition towards theoretical physics attacked the fields as it was lenient towards theories rather than proving the natural phenomenon through experiments. conducting experiments on particles which also released tremendous amount of radiation, was lifelong passion of bhabha, and his leading edge research and experiments brought great laurels to indian physicists who particularly switched their fields to nuclear physics, one of the most notable being piara singh gill.


=== research in nuclear physicsedit ===
in january 1933, bhabha received his doctorate in nuclear physics after publishing his first scientific paper, "the absorption of cosmic radiation". in the publication, bhabha offered an explanation of the absorption features and electron shower production in cosmic rays. the paper helped him win the isaac newton studentship in 1934, which he held for the next three years. the following year, he completed his doctoral studies in theoretical physics under ralph h. fowler. during his studentship, he split his time working at cambridge and with niels bohr in copenhagen. in 1935, bhabha published a paper in the proceedings of the royal society, series a, in which performed the first calculation to determine the cross section of electron-positron scattering. electron-positron scattering was later named bhabha scattering, in honor of his contributions in the field.
in 1936, the two published a paper, "the passage of fast electrons and the theory of cosmic showers" in the proceedings of the royal society, series a, in which they used their theory to describe how primary cosmic rays from outer space interact with the upper atmosphere to produce particles observed at the ground level. bhabha and heitler then made numerical estimates of the number of electrons in the cascade process at different altitudes for different electron initiation energies. the calculations agreed with the experimental observations of cosmic ray showers made by bruno rossi and pierre victor auger a few years before. bhabha later concluded that observations of the properties of such particles would lead to the straightforward experimental verification of albert einstein's theory of relativity. in 1937, bhabha was awarded the senior studentship of the 1851 exhibition, which helped him continue his work at cambridge until the outbreak of world war ii in 1939.


== return to indiaedit ==
in september 1939, bhabha was in india for a brief holiday when world war ii started, and he decided not to return to england for the time being. he accepted an offer to serve as the reader in the physics department of the indian institute of science, then headed by renowned physicist c. v. raman. he received a special research grant from the sir dorab tata trust, which he used to establish the cosmic ray research unit at the institute. bhabha selected a few students, including harish-chandra, to work with him. later, on 20 march 1941, he was elected a fellow of the royal society . with the help of j. r. d. tata, he played an instrumental role in the establishment of the tata institute of fundamental research in bombay.


== atomic energy in indiaedit ==
when bhabha was working at the india institute of science, there was no institute in india which had the necessary facilities for original work in nuclear physics, cosmic rays, high energy physics, and other frontiers of knowledge in physics. this prompted him to send a proposal in march 1944 to the sir dorabji jamsetji tata. tata trust for establishing 'a vigorous school of research in fundamental physics'. in his proposal he wrote :
the trustees of sir dorabji jamsetji. tata trust decided to accept bhabha's proposal and financial responsibility for starting the institute in april 1944. bombay was chosen as the location for the prosed institute as the government of bombay showed interest in becoming a joint founder of the proposed institute. the institute, named tata institute of fundamental research, was inaugurated in 1945 in 540 square meters of hired space in an existing building. in 1948 the institute was moved into the old buildings of the royal yacht club. when bhabha realized that technology development for the atomic energy programme could no longer be carried out within tifr he proposed to the government to build a new laboratory entirely devoted to this purpose. for this purpose, 1200 acres of land was acquired at trombay from the bombay government. thus the atomic energy establishment trombay (aeet) started functioning in 1954. the same year the department of atomic energy (dae) was also established. he represented india in international atomic energy forums, and as president of the united nations conference on the peaceful uses of atomic energy, in geneva, switzerland in 1955. he was elected a foreign honorary member of the american academy of arts and sciences in 1958.


== visionary behind india's three stage nuclear power programmeedit ==
bhabha is generally acknowledged as the father of indian nuclear power. moreover, he is credited with formulating a strategy of focussing on extracting power from the country's vast thorium reserves rather than its meagre uranium reserves. this thorium focused strategy was in marked contrast to all other countries in the world. the approach proposed by bhabha to achieve this strategic objective became india's three stage nuclear power programme.
bhabha paraphrased the three-stage approach as follows:


== deathedit ==
he died when air india flight 101 crashed near mont blanc on 24 january 1966.


=== assassination conspiracy theoriesedit ===
many possible theories have been advanced for the air crash, including a conspiracy theory in which central intelligence agency (cia) is involved in order to paralyze india's nuclear program. while an indian diplomatic bag containing newspapers, calendars and a personal letter was recovered near the crash site in 2012, it was a "type c" diplomatic bag containing no documents of importance.
gregory douglas, a journalist who taped his interviews with former cia operative, robert crowley, over a period of 4 years, recorded their telephonic conversations and later published their transcribes in a book titled conversations with the crow. crowley claimed that cia was responsible for eliminating dr. homi bhabha, indian nuclear scientist whose plane crashed into alps, when he was going to attend a vienna conference and lal bahadur shastri, who died at tashkent summit in 1966. crowley said that a bomb in the cargo section of the plane went off in mid-air, bringing down the commercial boeing 707 airliner in alps with little evidence left to be retrieved. crowley claimed that u.s. was wary of indian nuclear progress and the defeat of their ally pakistan, in 1965 war. u.s. was worried that india could well be the chief in south asian continent along with russian think-tanks, if india develops nuclear capabilities, thus bringing instability to the region.


== legacyedit ==

after his death, the atomic energy establishment at bombay was renamed as the bhabha atomic research centre in his honour. in addition to being an able scientist and administrator, bhabha was also a painter and a classical music and opera enthusiast, besides being an amateur botanist.he is one of the most prominent scientists that india has ever had. bhabha also encouraged research in electronics, space science, radio astronomy and microbiology. the famed radio telescope at ooty, india was his initiative, and it became a reality in 1970. the homi bhabha fellowship council has been giving the homi bhabha fellowships since 1967 other noted institutions in his name are the homi bhabha national institute, an indian deemed university and the homi bhabha centre for science education, mumbai, india.


== triviaedit ==
on 13 march 2014, the times of india reported that the national centre for the performing arts (ncpa) had issued a public notice inviting developers and investors interested in purchasing mehrangir, the sprawling colonial bungalow at malabar hill where bhabha, spent most of his life. the bungalow has a builtup area of 13,953 sq feet and a plot measuring 17,150 sq feet.
after bhabha died in 1966, his brother jamshed became the custodian of the bhabha estate. being an avid patron of arts and culture, jamshed bhabha, who died in 2007, aged 93, had willed the property along with paintings, jewellery, artefacts and furniture to the ncpa, which he had established. located at a stone's throw from hanging gardens, the property is estimated to be valued at over rs 257 crore (as of march 2014)  and was sold to godrej family for rs 372 crore  by the ncpa on 18 june 2014.
the employees and scientists working for department of atomic energy and tata institute of fundamental research, which bhabha founded, have protested against the sale of the bungalow to private developers as they believe that the bungalow should be preserved as a memorial. however ncpa chairman k n suntook said that such sentiments  were misplaced . he said that that homi bhabha, the architect of india s nuclear power programme, was only a part owner of the property and after his demise, the property  devolved solely upon his brother jamshed, who bequeathed it absolutely to the ncpa by his will, which has since been probated .
suntook said he was sad that eminent scientists were supporting this movement and that barc has lot of funds and they could have used that to bid for the bungalow. while there were eight bidders originally, three turned up for the auction. suntook added that homi bhabha was a great lover of culture himself and both brothers would have been disappointed with the opposition to the auction.


== see alsoedit ==
india's three stage nuclear power programme


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
annotated bibliography for homi j. bhabha from the alsos digital library for nuclear issues.
the woodrow wilson center's nuclear proliferation international history project. npihp has a series of primary source documents about and by homi bhabha.

mahendra singh dhoni ( pronunciation , commonly known as m. s. dhoni; born 7 july 1981) is an indian cricketer and the current captain of the indian national cricket team in limited-overs formats. an attacking right-handed middle-order batsman and wicket-keeper, he is widely regarded as one of the greatest finishers in limited-overs cricket. he made his one day international (odi) debut in december 2004 against bangladesh, and played his first test a year later against sri lanka.
dhoni holds numerous captaincy records such as most wins by an indian captain in tests and odis, and most back-to-back wins by an indian captain in odis. he took over the odi captaincy from rahul dravid in 2007 and led the team to its first-ever bilateral odi series wins in sri lanka and new zealand. under his captaincy, india won the 2007 icc world twenty20, the cb series of 2007 08, the 2010 asia cup, the 2011 icc cricket world cup and the 2013 icc champions trophy. in the final of the 2011 world cup, dhoni scored 91 not out off 79 balls to take india to victory for which he was awarded the man of the match. in june 2013, when india defeated england in the final of the champions trophy in england, dhoni became the first captain to win all three icc limited-overs trophies (world cup, champions trophy and the world twenty20). after taking up the test captaincy in 2008, he led the team to series wins in new zealand and west indies, and the border-gavaskar trophy in 2008, 2010 and 2013. in 2009, dhoni also led the indian team to number one position for the first time in the icc test rankings. in 2013, under his captaincy, india became the first team in more than 40 years to whitewash australia in a test series. in the indian premier league, he captained the chennai super kings to victory at the 2010 and 2011 seasons, along with wins in the 2010 and 2014 editions of champions league twenty20. he announced his retirement from tests in december 2014.
dhoni holds the post of vice-president of india cements ltd., after resigning from air india. india cements is the owner of the ipl team chennai super kings, and dhoni has been its captain since the first ipl season. dhoni is the co-owner of indian super league team chennaiyin fc.
dhoni has been the recipient of many awards, including the icc odi player of the year award in 2008 and 2009 (the first player to win the award twice), the rajiv gandhi khel ratna award in 2007 and the padma shri, india's fourth highest civilian honour, in 2009. he was named as the captain of icc world test xi and icc world odi xi teams for 2009. the indian territorial army conferred the honorary rank of lieutenant colonel to dhoni on 1 november 2011. he is the second indian cricketer after kapil dev to have received this honour. in 2011, time magazine included dhoni in its annual time 100 list as one of the "most influential people in the world." in 2012, sportspro rated dhoni as the sixteenth most marketable athlete in the world. in june 2015, forbes ranked dhoni at 23rd in the list of highest paid athletes in the world, estimating his earnings at us$31 million.


== early life and background ==
dhoni was born in ranchi, bihar (now in jharkhand), and he identifies as being a rajput. his paternal village lvali is in the lamgarha block of the almora district of uttarakhand. dhoni's parents, moved from uttarakhand to ranchi where pan singh worked in junior management positions in mecon. dhoni has a sister jayanti gupta and a brother narendra singh dhoni. dhoni is a fan of adam gilchrist, and his childhood idols were cricket teammate sachin tendulkar, bollywood actor amitabh bachchan and singer lata mangeshkar
dhoni studied at dav jawahar vidya mandir, shyamali, ranchi, jharkhand where he initially excelled in badminton and football and was selected at district and club level in these sports. dhoni was a goalkeeper for his football team and was sent to play cricket for a local cricket club by his football coach. though he had not played cricket, dhoni impressed with his wicket-keeping skills and became the regular wicketkeeper at the commando cricket club (1995 1998). based on his performance at club cricket, he was picked for the 1997/98 season vinoo mankad trophy under-16 championship and he performed well. dhoni focused on cricket after his 10th standard. dhoni was a train ticket examiner (tte) at kharagpur railway station from 2001 to 2003, under south eastern railway in midnapore (w), a district in west bengal. his colleagues remember him as a very honest, straightforward employee of the indian railways. but he also had a mischievous side to his personality. once, while staying at the railway quarters, dhoni and a couple of his friends covered themselves in white bedsheets and walked around in the complex late in the night. the night guards were fooled into believing that there were ghosts moving around in the complex. the story made big news on the next day.


== personal life ==

dhoni married sakshi singh rawat,his schoolmate in dav jawahar vidya mandir, shyamali. a native of dehradun, uttarakhand, on 4 july 2010. at the time of their marriage, she was studying hotel management and was working as a trainee at the taj bengal, kolkata. after the retirement of sakshi s father from his tea growing business, their family shifted to their native place, dehradun.
the wedding took place one day after the couple got engaged. according to bollywood actress bipasha basu, a close friend of dhoni, the wedding was planned for months and was not a spur of the moment decision. dhoni became father on 6 february 2015 to a baby girl named ziva.


== playing style ==
dhoni is a right-handed batsman and wicket-keeper. initially, dhoni appeared as a lower-order attacking batsman but he gradually changed his style of playing with occurrence of pressure situation and his growing responsibility as a captain. he is a powerful hitter of the ball and one of the fastest man in running between the wickets.
his wicket-keeping skills is widely praised by cricket-experts. he is quick when comes to stumping. he is main wicket-keeper in the team but he occasionally bowls.


== early career ==


=== junior cricket in bihar ===
in 1998 dhoni was selected by deval sahay to play for the central coal fields limited (ccl) team. dhoni was included in the bihar u-19 squad for the 1998 99 season and scored 176 runs in 5 matches (7 innings) as the team finished fourth in the group of six and did not make it to the quarter-finals. dhoni was not picked for the east zone u-19 squad (ck nayudu trophy) or rest of india squad (ma chidambaram trophy and vinoo mankad trophy). bihar u-19 cricket team advanced to the finals of the 1999 2000 cooch behar trophy where dhoni made 84 to help bihar post a total of 357. bihar's efforts were dwarfed by punjab u-19s' 839 with dhoni's future national squad teammate yuvraj singh making 358. dhoni's contribution in the tournament included 488 runs (9 matches, 12 innings), 5 fifties, 17 catches and 7 stumpings. dhoni made it to the east zone u-19 squad for the ck nayudu trophy but scored only 97 runs in four matches as east zone lost all four matches and finished last in the tournament.


=== bihar cricket team ===
dhoni made his ranji trophy debut for bihar in the 1999 2000 season as an eighteen-year-old. he made a half century in his debut match scoring 68* in the second innings against assam cricket team. dhoni finished the season with 283 runs in 5 matches. dhoni scored his maiden first-class century while playing for bihar against bengal in the 2000/01 season in a losing cause. apart from this century, his performance in the 2000/01 season did not include another score over fifty and in the 2001/02 season he scored just five fifties in four ranji matches.


=== jharkhand cricket team ===
dhoni's performance in the 2002 03 season included three half-centuries in the ranji trophy and a couple of half-centuries in the deodhar trophy as he started gaining recognition for his lower-order contribution as well as hard-hitting batting style. in the 2003/04 season, dhoni scored a century (128*) against assam in the first match of the ranji odi tournament. he was part of the east zone squad that won the deodhar trophy that year and contributed with 244 runs in 4 matches. in the duleep trophy finals, dhoni was picked over international cricketer deep dasgupta to represent east zone. he scored a fighting half-century in the second innings in a losing cause.
dhoni's talent was discovered via the bcci's small-town talent-spotting initiative trdw. dhoni was discovered by trdo pc podar, captain of bengal in the 1960s, when he saw dhoni play for jharkhand at a match in jamshedpur in 2003, and sent a report to the national cricket academy.


=== india a team ===
he was recognised for his efforts in the 2003/04 season, especially in the odi format and was picked for the india a squad for a tour of zimbabwe and kenya. against the zimbabwe xi in harare sports club, dhoni had his best wicket-keeping effort with 7 catches and 4 stumpings in the match. in the tri-nation tournament involving kenya, india a and pakistan a, dhoni helped india a chase down their target of 223 against pakistan a with a half-century. continuing his good performance, he scored back to back centuries   120 and 119*   against the same team. dhoni scored 362 runs in 6 innings at an average of 72.40 and his performance in the series received attention from the then indian captain   sourav ganguly and ravi shastri amongst others. however, the india a team coach sandeep patil recommended dinesh karthik for a place in the indian squad as wicket-keeper/batsman.


== odi career ==

the indian odi team in the early 2000s saw rahul dravid as the wicket-keeper to ensure that the wicket-keeper spot didn't lack in batting talent. the team also saw the entry of wicket-keeper/batsmen from the junior ranks with talents like parthiv patel and dinesh karthik (both india u-19 captains) named in the test squads. with dhoni making a mark in the india a squad, he was picked in the odi squad for the bangladesh tour in 2004/05. dhoni did not have a great start to his odi career, getting run out for a duck on debut. in spite of an average series against bangladesh, dhoni was picked for the pakistan odi series. in the second match of the series, dhoni, in his fifth one-day international, scored 148 in vishakapatnam off only 123 deliveries. dhoni's 148 surpassed the earlier record for the highest score by an indian wicket-keeper, a record that he would re-write before the end of the year.
dhoni had few batting opportunities in the first two games of the sri lankan bilateral odi series (october november 2005) and was promoted to no. 3 in the third odi at sawai mansingh stadium (jaipur). sri lanka had set india a target of 299 after a kumar sangakkara century and, in reply, india lost tendulkar early. dhoni was promoted to accelerate the scoring and ended the game with an unbeaten 183 off 145 balls, winning the game for india. the innings was described in wisden almanack (2006) as 'uninhibited, yet anything but crude'. the innings set various records including the highest individual score in odi cricket in the second innings, a record that still stands. dhoni ended the series with the highest run aggregate (346) and was awarded the man of the series award for his efforts. in december 2005, dhoni was rewarded a b-grade contract by the bcci.

india scored 328 in 50 overs with dhoni contributing 68 in their first match of 2006 against pakistan. however, the team finished poorly scoring just 43 runs in the last eight overs and lost the match due to duckworth-lewis method. in the third match of the series, dhoni came in with india in a precarious situation and scored 72 runs off just 46 balls that included 13 boundaries to help india take a 2 1 lead in the series. the final match of the series had a repeat performance as dhoni scored 77 runs off 56 balls to enable india win the series 4 1. due to his consistent odi performances, dhoni overtook ricky ponting as number one in the icc odi rankings for batsmen on 20 april 2006. his reign lasted just a week as adam gilchrist's performance against bangladesh moved him to the top spot.
two cancelled series in sri lanka, one due to the withdrawal of south africa from the unitech cup due to security concerns and the replacement three-match odi bilateral series against sri lanka washed due to rain, was india's prelude to another disappointing tournament   dlf cup 2006-07. dhoni scored 43 runs as the team lost twice in three games and did not qualify for the finals. india's lack of preparation showed in the 2006 icc champions trophy as they lost to west indies and australia, though dhoni scored a half-century against west indies. the story of the odi series in south africa was the same for both dhoni and india as dhoni scored 139 runs in 4 matches and india lost the series 4 0. from the start of the west indies odi series, dhoni had played 16 matches, hit just two fifties and averaged 25.93. dhoni received criticism on his wicket-keeping technique from former wicket-keeper syed kirmani.
preparations for the 2007 cricket world cup improved as india recorded identical 3 1 victories over west indies and sri lanka and dhoni had averages in excess of 100 in both these series. however, india unexpectedly crashed out the world cup after losses to bangladesh and sri lanka in the group stage. dhoni was out for a duck in both these matches and scored just 29 runs in the tournament. after the loss to bangladesh in 2007 cricket world cup, the house that dhoni was constructing in his home-town ranchi was vandalised and damaged by political activists of jmm. the local police arranged for security for his family as india exited the world cup in the first round.
dhoni put his disappointing performances in the world cup behind him by scoring 91* against bangladesh after india were left in a tight spot earlier in the run-chase. dhoni was declared the man of the match for his performance, his fourth in odi cricket. he was also later adjudged the man of the series after the third game of the series was washed away. dhoni had a good afro-asia cup, scoring 174 runs in 3 matches at an average of 87.00, with a blitzkrieg 139 not out of 97 balls, a man of the match innings, in the third odi.
dhoni was named vice-captain of the odi team for the series against south africa in ireland and the subsequent india-england seven-match odi series. dhoni, who received a 'b' grade contract in december 2005, was awarded an 'a' grade contract in june 2007. and also he was elected as captain of the indian squad for the world twenty20 in september 2007. on 2 september 2007, dhoni equaled his idol adam gilchrist's international record for the most dismissals in an innings in odi by catching five english players and stumping one. he led india to the icc world twenty 20 trophy in south africa with a victory over arch-rivals pakistan in an intensely fought final on 24 september 2007, and became the second indian captain to have won a world cup in any form of cricket, after kapil dev. during the series between india and australia, dhoni hit an aggressive 124 runs in just 107 balls, in the second odi, and a measured knock of 71 runs in 95 balls, along with yuvraj singh, saw india home by 6 wickets, in the third odi. dhoni took his first wicket in international cricket on 30 september 2009. he bowled travis dowlin of the west indies during a match of the 2009 champions trophy.

dhoni topped the icc odi batsman rankings for several months in 2009. michael hussey from australia replaced him at the top spot at the beginning of 2010.
dhoni had an excellent year in odis in 2009 scoring 1198 runs in just 24 innings at an astonishing average of 70.43. dhoni was also the joint top-scorer in odis in 2009 along with ricky ponting, but the latter having played in 30 innings.
on 12 february 2012, dhoni made an unbeaten 44 to guide india to their first win over australia at adelaide. in the final over, he hit a monstrous six which traveled 112 metres off the bowling of clint mckay. during the post-match presentation, he described this six as more important than the one he hit during the icc world cup final in 2011.
on 2 november 2013, dhoni became the second india batsman after sachin tendulkar to aggregate 1,000 or more odi-runs against australia.
despite of dhoni's impressive captaincy in odis, india lost to emerging bangladesh by 2-1 during indian tour to bangladesh. this gave indians, their first series lost against bangladesh.


== test career ==

following his good one-day performance against sri lanka, dhoni replaced dinesh karthik in december 2005 as the indian test wicket-keeper. dhoni scored 30 runs in his debut match that was marred by rain. dhoni came to the crease when the team was struggling at 109/5 and as wickets kept falling around him, he played an aggressive innings and was the last man dismissed. dhoni made his maiden half-century in the second test and his quick scoring rate (half century came off 51 balls) aided india to set a target of 436 and the sri lankans were bowled out for 247.
india toured pakistan in january february 2006 and dhoni scored his maiden century in the second test at faisalabad. india were left in a tight spot as dhoni was joined by irfan pathan with the team still 107 away from avoiding a follow-on. dhoni played his typical aggressive innings as he brought up his maiden test hundred in just 93 balls after scoring the first fifty in just 34 deliveries.

dhoni followed the century up with some prosaic batting performances over the next three matches, one against pakistan that india lost and two against england that had india holding a 1 0 lead. dhoni was the top scorer in india's first innings in the third test at wankhede stadium as his 64 aided india post a respectable 279 in reply to england's 400. however dhoni and the indian fielders dropped catches and missed many dismissal chances including a key stumping opportunity of andrew flintoff (14). dhoni failed to collect the harbhajan singh delivery cleanly as flintoff went on to make 36 more runs as england set a target of 313 for the home team, a target that india were never in the reckoning. a batting collapse saw the team being dismissed for 100 and dhoni scored just 5 runs and faced criticism for his wicket-keeping lapses as well as his shot selections.
on the west indies tour in 2006, dhoni scored a quick and aggressive 69 in the first test at antigua. the rest of the series was unremarkable for dhoni as he scored 99 runs in the remaining 6 innings but his wicket-keeping skills improved and he finished the series with 13 catches and 4 stumpings. in the test series in south africa later that year, dhoni's scores of 34 and 47 were not sufficient to save the second test against the proteas as india lost the series 2 1, squandering the chance to build on their first ever test victory in south africa (achieved in the first test match). dhoni's bruised hands ruled him out of the third test match.
on the fourth day of the first test match at antigua recreation ground, st john's, antigua during india's tour of west indies, 2006, dhoni's flick off dave mohammed to the midwicket region was caught by daren ganga. as the batsman started to walk back, captain dravid declared the innings when confusion started as the umpires were not certain if the fielder stepped on the ropes and dhoni stayed for the umpire's verdict. while the replays were inconclusive, the captain of the west indies side, brian lara, wanted dhoni to walk off based on the fielder's assertion of the catch. the impasse continued for more than 15 minutes and lara's temper was on display with finger wagging against the umpires and snatching the ball from umpire asad rauf. ultimately, dhoni walked off and dravid's declaration was effected but the game was delayed, and lara's action was criticised by the commentators and former players. lara was summoned by the match referee to give an explanation of his actions but he was not fined.
dhoni scored two centuries in sri lanka's tour of india in 2009, a series of three matches in which he led india to a 2 0 victory. with this feat, india soared up to the number one position in test cricket for the first time in history. india scored 726 9 (decl) in the third match of this series, which is their highest test total ever.
he played his last series in the 2014 15 season in india's tour of australia captaining india in the second and third tests; losing the second and drawing the third, trailing the series 2 0 before the sydney test. following the third test in melbourne, dhoni announced his retirement from the format. in his last test, he effected 9 dismissals (8 catches and 1 stumping), and in the process, went past kumar sangakkara in the record for stumpings with 134 (in all three formats combined) and also broke the record for effecting the most dismissals in a match by an indian wicketkeeper. he finished his last innings unbeaten making 24 runs.


== captain of india ==

dhoni was named the captain of indian squad for the inaugural icc world twenty20 held in south africa in september 2007. india were crowned champions as dhoni led the team to victory against pakistan in a thrilling contest. he, then, went on to become the odi captain of the indian team for the seven-match odi series against australia in september 2007. he made his debut as full-time test captain of india during the fourth and final test against australia at nagpur in november 2008 replacing anil kumble who was injured in the third test and who then announced his retirement. dhoni was vice-captain in this series up to that point. india eventually won that test thus clinching the series 2 0 and retained the border-gavaskar trophy. dhoni had previously captained india on a stand-in basis against south africa and australia in 2008 and 2009 respectively.
it was under his captaincy that india climbed to no. 1 in the icc test rankings in december 2009. after that he managed to lead india in a series-leveling world championship of tests against the south africans in february 2010. india also managed to draw the test series 1 1 in south africa later that year.
after winning the 2011 icc cricket world cup final against sri lanka on 2 april 2011 with his match winning knock of unbeaten 91, tendulkar heaped praises on dhoni, claiming him to be the best captain he has played under. tendulkar mentioned that it was dhoni's calm influence that was rubbing off on all his team-mates and described dhoni's handling of pressure was incredible.
only nine players have captained ten or more tests playing as a wicket-keeper. dhoni leads the table with 33 tests as captain, 15 ahead of gerry alexander in second place.
in march 2013, dhoni became the most successful indian test captain when he eclipsed sourav ganguly s record of 21 victories from 49 tests. ganguly also said in an interview to a news channel that dhoni is the all-time greatest captain of india and he has a great record to support this credential.


=== match bans ===
dhoni, being captain of the indian cricket team, has seldom faced any restrictions not to play in matches, due to slow-over rate. in december 2009, he was suspended for two odi matches against sri lanka when icc match referee jeff crowe imposed the ban as india was three overs short of the specified overs. hence virender sehwag was named the skipper for the two matches in cuttack and kolkata. further, in january 2012 he was banned for the fourth test match against australia in adelaide. dhoni's team was two overs short during the third test in perth. consequently, sehwag captained the team in the adelaide test and wriddhiman saha kept the wickets. in the cb series in february, dhoni again faced a one match ban for slow-over rate against australia.


== world cup ==
dhoni has had just two odi world cup while five t20 world cups under his belt as a captain. india won the lone odi world cup when he was the captain, while winning one of the five t20 world cups.


=== 2007 cricket world cup ===
dhoni played his first odi world cup in 2007 at the caribbean. india made an early exit from the tournament in the group stage. in 2007 cricket world cup, india was placed in group b with sri lanka, bangladesh and bermuda.rahul dravid captained the team in this world cup. in three matches india played, they managed to win only one against bermuda while losing the rest from bangladesh and sri lanka. in their first match against bangladesh, india was all out in just 191 in 49.3 overs. dhoni was out for 0.he stumped tamim iqbal, shakib al hasan and captain habibul bashar in the match but, india lost by 5 wickets. in the next match against bermuda, india posted the then highest score in the world cup 413/5 in a must-win match. dhoni scored 29 off 25 balls which includes two 4s and one 6. india won the match by 257 runs. india was required to win their last group match against the lankans but they lost by 69 runs. chasing the target of 255, india crumbled to 185 all out in 43.3 overs. dhoni was out for 0 for the second time on the tournament in his very first ball by muttiah muralitharan. thus, india was out of the world cup in very first round. the team was heavily criticized for their performance. dhoni's under construction house in ranchi was attacked by some 200 fans after the bangladesh loss.


=== 2011 cricket world cup ===
under dhoni's captaincy, india won the 2011 world cup. in the final against sri lanka, chasing 275, dhoni promoted himself up the batting order, coming before yuvraj singh. when he came to bat india needed more than six runs per over with three top order batsmen already dismissed. he started building a good partnership with gautam gambhir. due to good strokeplay and active running between wickets, they kept up with the required run rate. dhoni was on 60 off 60 balls, but later accelerated with a greater flow of boundaries, ending with 91 not out off 79 balls. befitting the occasion, he finished the match of in style with a huge six over long-on off bowler nuwan kulasekara and won man of the match. later in the post match presentation, he admitted that he came up the order so as to counter the muralitharan spin threat as he was very familiar with murali's bowling, who was his team-mate in the indian premier league (ipl) franchise chennai super kings. he had come after the dismissal of virat kohli, also a right-handed batsman. by partnering the left-handed gambhir, he ensured a right-left combination at the crease that makes it difficult for bowlers to settle into a rhythm.
the bat used by dhoni in the final match was sold for   72 lac. the money goes to sakshi rawat foundation, operated by dhoni's wife sakshi rawat to help orphan children.


=== 2015 cricket world cup ===
for the 2015 world cup held in australia and new zealand, dhoni was named the captain of the 30-member squad by the bcci in december 2014. under his captaincy, india was able to go through to semi-finals with ease, beating bangladesh in the quarter finals. however, they lost to australia in the semi-finals. the team won 7 consecutive matches in this world cup and won 11 all consecutive in world cups. with the win against bangladesh, he became the first non-australian captain to won 100 odi matches, and first indian captain to achieve the mark. he is also the third captain to won 100 matches, after two australians, ricky ponting, and allan border.


== indian premier league ==
dhoni was contracted by the chennai super kings for 1.5 million usd. this made him the most expensive player in the ipl for the first season auctions. dhoni is the present captain of the chennai super kings team. under his captaincy, chennai super kings have won two indian premier league titles and the 2010 champions league twenty20.


=== season by season at ipl ===


== international centuries ==


=== test centuries ===


=== one day international centuries ===


==== one day international centuries for india ====


==== one day international centuries for acc asia xi ====


== international records ==


=== test cricket ===
dhoni's maiden century against pakistan in faisalabad (148) is the fastest century scored by an indian wicket keeper. only three centuries by two other wicket-keepers (kamran akmal and adam gilchrist   2) were faster than dhoni's 93 ball century.
under dhoni's captaincy, india defeated australia by 320 runs on 21 october 2008, biggest ever win in terms of runs for india.
dhoni holds the record for most catches by an indian player in an innings. he achieved this feat by taking six catches during the first innings of the third test against new zealand in wellington in april 2009.
dhoni also equalled syed kirmani's record for most dismissals in an innings by an indian wicket-keeper. syed kirmani has effected 6 dismissals (5 catches and 1 stumping) against new zealand in 1976. dhoni now has equalled that record for most dismissals with 6 dismissals (all 6 catches) against new zealand in 2009.
dhoni currently ranks no. 1 in the all-time dismissals list by indian wicket-keepers. dhoni has now been involved in 248 dismissals. the following is the list of top five indian wicket-keepers, in terms of all-time dismissals in test matches: dhoni (248 dismissals), syed kirmani (198 dismissals), kiran more (130 dismissals), nayan mongia (107 dismissals) and farokh engineer (82 dismissals).
dhoni is the second wicketkeeper to have effected 6 dismissals in an innings apart from a fifty in each innings of a test match. denis lindsay had accomplished the feat for south africa against australia at johannesburg in december 1966   69 & 182 and 6 catches + 2 catches.
under dhoni's captaincy, india reached their highest test score of 726 9 (decl) during sri lanka's tour of india in 2009. their 2 0 victory in the series took them to the number 1 ranking in test cricket for the first time in history.
under dhoni's captaincy, india did not lose a test match until the first test versus south africa in nagpur in february 2010. as a captain, he holds a record for longest unbeaten run in tests from his debut, 11 tests (8 wins and 3 draws). this record crossed former australian captain warwick armstrong's run of 10 unbeaten tests (8 wins, 2 draws) from debut. in dhoni's streak, however, there was a period of injury in which virender sehwag led the side (for 3 draws). so india's unbeaten streak was for 14 tests, of which 11 were dhoni's.
however dhoni's unbeaten streak of 11 test matches ended during india's tour of england in 2011 and england also replaced india from no. 1 spot in icc test team rankings.
dhoni shares with nayan mongia the record of most dismissals (8) by an indian wicket-keeper in a test match (as of february 2013).
dhoni holds the record of most dismissals (8   7 catches and 1 stumping) by an indian wicket-keeper in a test match which includes at least one stumping (as of feb 2013).
dhoni holds the world record for most stumpings (12) in test wins as a captain (as of february 2013)
dhoni s 224 is the highest score by an indian captain in tests bettering sachin tendulkar s 217 against new zealand at ahmedabad in 1999.
dhoni has registered the highest test score by an indian wicketkeeper. on 193, he beat a long-standing record of 192 held by budhi kunderan against england in 1964, also scored in chennai.
dhoni has registered the highest score in test history by a wicketkeeper-captain beating englishman alec stewart s 164 vs south africa in 1998
dhoni is the first indian wicket keeper to complete 4,000 test runs.
dhoni is the most successful indian test captain with 24 test victories, eclipsing sourav ganguly s record of 21 victories from 49 tests.
dhoni has the dubious distinction of an indian captain with most test defeats overseas with 11 test losses.
after hitting a six in third test match between england and india in southampton, dhoni has completed 50 sixes as a captain and made a record.


=== odi cricket ===

on 31 october 2005 dhoni scored 183* runs of just 145 balls against sri lanka in sawai mansingh stadium, jaipur, which is the highest score made by any batsman in the second innings which was latter bettered by australian player shane watson who scored 185* of 96 balls against bangladesh at dhaka on 11 april 2011.the innings featured 10 sixes   the most by an indian in an innings, and the fifth highest in odis.
he broke adam gilchrist's record of 172 for the highest score made by a wicket keeper.
the innings set the record for the most number of runs scored in boundaries (120   15 4; 10 6) breaking the record held by saeed anwar. however this was later broken by herschelle gibbs (126 runs in boundaries   21 4; 7 6) against australia during his knock of 175.
the score of 183* equalled ganguly's innings during the 1999 cricket world cup as the highest individual score against sri lanka, until rohit sharma scored 264 runs in 2014.

dhoni has the fourth highest batting average(52.24) in one day international cricket, in the list of cricketers with more than 5,000 runs.
among indian batsmen who have played more than 50 matches, dhoni has the highest average. dhoni's batting average is also the highest among wicketkeepers in odis.
in june 2007, dhoni(139*) and mahela jayawardene(107) set a new world record for the sixth wicket partnership of 218 runs against africa xi during the afro-asia cup.dhoni passed shaun pollock's record for the highest individual score by a number seven batsman in one-day internationals during his unbeaten innings of 139. incidentally, pollock record stood for just three days as his score of 130 came in the first match of the 2007 afro-asia cup while dhoni's century came in the third and final match of the series.
dhoni also holds the records of the most dismissals in an innings by an indian wicketkeeper and joint international (with adam gilchrist) with 6 dismissals (5 catches and one stumping) against england at headlingly 2 september 2007.
dhoni holds the indian record of most dismissals in odis. he went past nayan mongia's 154 for india on 14 november 2008 when he caught ian bell off zaheer khan at madhavrao scindia cricket ground, rajkot. however including 3 odis against africa xi, his 155th dismissal was tm dilshan caught off munaf patel at r. premadasa stadium, colombo on 24 august 2008.

dhoni, when he was on four during his innings of 23 against sri lanka at r.premadasa stadium, colombo on saturday, completed 4,000 runs in odis. having already effected 165 dismissals (125 catches + 40 stumpings), dhoni became the sixth wicketkeeper after adam gilchrist, andy flower, alec stewart, mark boucher and kumar sangakkara to complete the "double" of 4,000 runs and 100 dismissals in the history of odis. dhoni s feat of completing the "double" of 4,000 runs and 100 dismissals in only 114 innings is a world record. he is the youngest wicket-keeper batsman to do so (27 years and 208 days).
dhoni is the only captain in the odis to score a century while batting at number 7. he did it against pakistan in december 2012.
on 31 january 2014,ms dhoni became the fourth fastest batsman to complete 8,000 runs in one-day cricket during the fifth and final odi against new zealand.
the first non-australian captain to won 100 odi matches, and first indian captain to achieve the mark. he is also the third captain to won 100 matches, after two australians, ricky ponting, and allan border.


== performance in international arena ==


== captaincy record ==
note   in the 2010 icc world twenty20, india played a super 8 match against west indies. this match comes under the list of matches played in away venues as the 2010 icc world twenty20 was being hosted in west indies


== honorary awards and appreciations ==
icc odi player of the year : 2008, 2009
icc world odi xi: 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014
icc world test xi: 2009, 2010, 2013
lg people s choice award : 2013
rajiv gandhi khel ratna, india's highest honour given for achievement in sports, 2007 08.
honorary doctorate degree by de montfort university in august 2011.


== outside cricket ==


=== co-owner of ranchi rays ===
along with sahara india pariwar, dhoni is also a co-owner of ranchi based hockey club ranchi rays, a franchise of the hockey india league.


=== co-owner of chennaiyin fc ===
along with abhishek bachchan and vita dani, dhoni is also a co-owner of chennai based football club chennaiyin fc, a franchise of the indian super league.


=== mahi racing team india ===
dhoni's interest in bikes was often discussed in media. he co-parternered akkineni nagarjuna in buying a supersport world championship team mahi racing team india.


=== biographical film ===
a biographical film based on the life of dhoni, titled m. s. dhoni: the untold story, is set to be released in 2015. the film features sushant singh rajput playing the role of dhoni. the film is directed by neeraj pandey and produced by rhiti sports management, a company that manages dhoni's commercial interests.


== endorsements ==
dhoni signed with kolkata-based celebrity management company gameplan sports in april 2005. currently dhoni has 20 endorsements, only shahrukh khan has more (21). in 2007 dhoni had 17 endorsements. in july 2010, dhoni tied up with rhiti sports management and mindscapes and has been promised a minimum guarantee of rs 210 crore over the next three years.
the following is the list of endorsements signed by dhoni:-
2005: pepsico, reebok, exide, tvs motors.
2006: mysore sandal soap, videocon, reliance communications, reliance energy, orient pspo fan, bharat petroleum, titan sonata, brylcreem, ndtv, ge money.
2007: siyaram.
2008: fashion at big bazaar alongside bollywood actress asin, maha choco, boost (health food), dainik bhaskar
2009: dabur honey, kolkata fashion week. aircel communications, nova scottia premium shirts.
2010: amrapali


== international awards ==


=== test cricket ===


==== man of the match awards ====


=== one-day international cricket ===


==== man of the series awards ====


==== man of the match awards ====


== notes ==


== external links ==
player profile: mahendra singh dhoni from espncricinfo
ms dhoni's profile page on wisden
mahendra singh dhoni's official website
mahendra singh dhoni's official facebook page
mahendra singh dhoni's official twitter account

amitabh harivansh bachchan (ipa: [ m  ta b   b tt  n]; born 11 october 1942) is an indian film actor. he first gained popularity in the early 1970s for movies like deewar and zanjeer, and was dubbed india's first "angry young man" for his on-screen roles in bollywood. he has since appeared in over 180 indian films in a career spanning more than four decades. bachchan is widely regarded as one of the greatest and most influential actors in the history of indian cinema. so total was his dominance of the movie scene in the 1970s and 1980s that the french director fran ois truffaut called him a "one-man industry."
bachchan has won many major awards in his career, including three national film awards as best actor, a number of awards at international film festivals and award ceremonies and fourteen filmfare awards. he is the most-nominated performer in any major acting category at filmfare, with 39 nominations overall. in addition to acting, bachchan has worked as a playback singer, film producer and television presenter. he also had a stint in politics in the 1980s.
the government of india honoured him with the padma shri in 1984, the padma bhushan in 2001 and the padma vibhushan in 2015 for his contributions to the arts. the government of france honoured him with its highest civilian honour, knight of the legion of honour, in 2007 for his exceptional career in the world of cinema and beyond.
bachchan made his hollywood debut in 2013 with the great gatsby, in which he played a non-indian jewish character, meyer wolfsheim.


== early and personal lifeedit ==

bachchan was born in allahabad, uttar pradesh, in north central india. his father harivansh rai bachchan was a hindi poet and his mother teji bachchan was a punjabi sikh from lyallpur (now faisalabad), punjab. bachchan was initially named inquilaab, inspired by the phrase inquilab zindabad popularly used during the indian independence struggle. in english, inquilab zindabad means "long live the revolution." however, at the suggestion of fellow poet sumitranandan pant, harivansh rai changed the boy's name to amitabh, which means "the light that will never die." although his surname was shrivastava, amitabh's father had adopted the pen name bachchan ("child-like" in colloquial hindi), under which he published all of his works. it is with this last name that amitabh debuted in films and for all other practical purposes, bachchan has become the surname for all of his immediate family. bachchan's father died in 2003, and his mother in 2007.
bachchan is an alumnus of sherwood college, nainital. he later attended kirori mal college, delhi university. he has a younger brother, ajitabh. his mother had a keen interest in theatre and was offered a feature film role, but she preferred her domestic duties. teji had some influence in amitabh bachchan's choice of career because she always insisted that he should "take the centre stage."
bachchan is married to actress jaya bhaduri. the couple have two children, shweta nanda (wife of businessman nikhil nanda) and abhishek bachchan (actor and husband of actress aishwarya rai).


== careeredit ==


=== early work: 1969 1972edit ===
bachchan made his film debut in 1969 as a voice narrator in mrinal sen's national award winning film bhuvan shome. his first acting role was as one of the seven protagonists in the film saat hindustani directed by khwaja ahmad abbas and featuring utpal dutt, anwar ali (brother of comedian mehmood), madhu and jalal agha.
anand (1971) followed, in which bachchan starred alongside rajesh khanna. his role as a doctor with a cynical view of life garnered bachchan his first filmfare best supporting actor award. he then played his first antagonist role as an infatuated lover-turned-murderer in parwaana (1971). following parwaana were several films including reshma aur shera (1971). during this time, he made a guest appearance in the film guddi which starred his future wife jaya bhaduri. he narrated part of the film bawarchi. in 1972 he made an appearance in the road action comedy bombay to goa directed by s. ramanathan. many of bachchan's films during this early period did not do well, but that was about to change.


=== rise to stardom: 1973 1983edit ===

director prakash mehra cast him in the leading role for the film zanjeer (1973) as inspector vijay khanna. the film was a sharp contrast to the romantically themed films that had generally preceded it and established amitabh in a new persona the "angry young man" of bollywood cinema. filmfare considers this one of the most iconic performances of bollywood history. the film was a huge success and one of the highest grossing films of that year, breaking bachchan's dry spell at the box office and making him a star. from then onwards, bachchan became one of the most successful leading men of the film industry. he earned his first filmfare nomination for best actor for zanjeer. the year 1973 was also when he married jaya, and around this time they appeared in several films together; not only in zanjeer but in films such as abhimaan which followed and was released only a month after their marriage and was also successful at the box office. later, bachchan played the role of vikram, once again along with rajesh khanna, in the film namak haraam, a social drama directed by hrishikesh mukherjee and scripted by biresh chatterjee addressing themes of friendship. his supporting role won him his second filmfare best supporting actor award.
in 1974, bachchan made several guest appearances in films such as kunwara baap and dost, before playing a supporting role in roti kapda aur makaan. the film, directed and written by manoj kumar, addressed themes of honesty in the face of oppression and financial and emotional hardship and was the top earning film of 1974. bachchan then played the leading role in film majboor, released on 6 december 1974, which was a remake of the hollywood film zig zag. the film was a success at the box office. in 1975, he starred in a variety of film genres from the comedy chupke chupke, the crime drama faraar to the romantic drama mili. 1975 was also the year when bachchan appeared in two films regarded as important in hindi cinema history. he starred in the yash chopra directed film deewaar along with shashi kapoor, nirupa roy, and neetu singh, earning him a filmfare nomination for best actor. the film became a major hit at the box office in 1975, ranking in at number 4. indiatimes movies ranks deewaar amongst the top 25 must see bollywood films. released on 15 august 1975 was sholay, which became the highest grossing film of 1975 and also of all time in india, earning inr 2,364,500,000 equivalent to us$60 million, after adjusting for inflation. in which bachchan played the role of jaidev. in 1999, bbc india declared it the "film of the millennium" and like deewar, has been cited by indiatimes movies as amongst the top 25 must see bollywood films. in that same year, the judges of the 50th annual filmfare awards awarded it with the special distinction award called filmfare best film of 50 years.
in 1976 he was cast by yash chopra in the romantic family drama kabhie kabhie. bachchan starred as a young poet named amit malhotra who falls deeply in love with a beautiful young girl named pooja (raakhee) who ends up marrying someone else (shashi kapoor). the film was notable for portraying bachchan as a romantic hero, a far cry from his "angry young man" roles like zanjeer and deewar. the film evoked a favourable response from critics and audiences alike. bachchan was again nominated for the filmfare best actor award for his role in the film. that same year he played a double role in adalat as father and son. in 1977, he won his first filmfare best actor award for his performance in amar akbar anthony where he played the third lead opposite vinod khanna and rishi kapoor as anthony gonsalves. the film was the highest grossing film of that year. his other successes that year include parvarish and khoon pasina. he once again resumed double roles in films such as kasme vaade (1978) as amit and shankar and don (1978) playing the characters of don, a leader of an underworld gang and his look alike vijay. his performance won him his second filmfare best actor award. he also gave towering performances in yash chopra's trishul and prakash mehra's muqaddar ka sikandar both of which earned him further filmfare best actor nominations.
in 1979, bachchan starred in suhaag which was the highest earning film of that year. in the same year he also enjoyed critical acclaim and commercial success with films like mr. natwarlal, kaala patthar and the great gambler. amitabh was required to use his singing voice for the first time in a song from the film mr. natwarlal in which he starred with rekha. bachchan's performance in the film saw him nominated for both the filmfare best actor award and the filmfare award for best male playback singer. he also received best actor nomination for kaala patthar and then went on to be nominated again in 1980 for the raj khosla directed film dostana, in which he starred opposite shatrughan sinha and zeenat aman. dostana proved to be the top grossing film of 1980. in 1981, he starred in yash chopra's melodrama film silsila, where he starred alongside his wife jaya and rekha. other films of this period like shaan (1980), shakti (1982) which pitted him against the veteran actor dilip kumar were not successful at the box office but ram balram (1980), naseeb (1981) and lawaaris (1981) were successful.
in 1982 he played double roles in the films satte pe satta and desh premee which succeeded at the box office. in 1983 he played a triple role in mahaan and starred in the top grossing film of that year coolie.


=== 1982 injury while filming coolieedit ===
on 26 july 1982, while filming coolie in the university campus in bangalore, bachchan suffered a near fatal intestinal injury during the filming of a fight scene with co-actor puneet issar. bachchan was performing his own stunts in the film and one scene required him to fall onto a table and then on the ground. however, as he jumped towards the table, the corner of the table struck his abdomen, resulting in a splenic rupture from which he lost a significant amount of blood. he required an emergency splenectomy and remained critically ill in hospital for many months, at times close to death. the public response included prayers in temples and offers to sacrifice limbs to save him, while later, there were long queues of well-wishing fans outside the hospital where he was recuperating.
nevertheless, he resumed filming later that year after a long period of recuperation. the film was released in 1983, and partly due to the huge publicity of bachchan's accident, the film was a box office success and the top grossing film that year.
the director, manmohan desai, altered the ending of coolie after bachchan's accident. bachchan's character was originally intended to have been killed off but after the change of script, the character lived in the end. it would have been inappropriate, said desai, for the man who had just fended off death in real life to be killed on screen. also, in the released film the footage of the fight scene is frozen at the critical moment, and a caption appears onscreen marking this as the instant of the actor's injury and the ensuing publicity of the accident.
later, he was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis. his illness made him feel weak both mentally and physically and he decided to quit films and venture into politics. at this time he became pessimistic, expressing concern with how a new film would be received and stated before every release, "yeh film to flop hogi!" ("this film will flop").


=== politics: 1984 87edit ===
in 1984, bachchan took a break from acting and briefly entered politics in support of long-time family friend, rajiv gandhi. he contested allahabad's seat of 8th lok sabha against h. n. bahuguna, former chief minister of uttar pradesh and won by one of the highest victory margins in general election history (68.2% of the vote). his political career, however, was short-lived: he resigned after three years, calling politics a cesspool. the resignation followed the implication of bachchan and his brother in the "bofors scandal" by a newspaper, which he vowed to take to court. bachchan was eventually found not guilty of involvement in the ordeal.
his old friend, amar singh, helped him during a financial crisis due to the failure of his company abcl. therefore, bachchan started to support amar singh's political party, the samajwadi party. jaya bachchan joined the samajwadi party and became a rajya sabha member. bachchan has continued to do favours for the samajwadi party, including advertisements and political campaigns. these activities have recently gotten him into trouble in the indian courts for false claims after a previous incident of submission of legal papers by him, stating that he is a farmer.
a 15-year press ban against bachchan was imposed during his peak acting years by stardust and some of the other film magazines. in his defence, bachchan claimed to have banned the press from entering his sets until late 1989.


=== slump and retirement: 1988 1992edit ===
in 1988, bachchan returned to films, playing the title role in shahenshah, which was a box office success. after the success of his comeback film however, his star power began to wane as all of his subsequent films like jaadugar, toofan and main azaad hoon (all released in 1989) failed at the box office. the 1991 hit film, hum, for which he won his third filmfare best actor award, looked like it might reverse the trend, but this momentum was short-lived and his string of box office failures continued. notably, despite the lack of hits, it was during this era that bachchan won his first national film award for best actor for his performance as a mafia don in the 1990 film agneepath. these years would see his last on-screen appearances for some time. after the release of khuda gawah in 1992, bachchan went into semi-retirement for five years. with the exception of the delayed release of insaniyat (1994), which was also a box office failure, bachchan did not appear in any new releases for five years.


=== producer and acting comeback 1996 99edit ===
bachchan turned producer during his temporary retirement period, setting up amitabh bachchan corporation, ltd. (abcl) in 1996, with a vision of becoming a 10 billion rupees (approx. u.s. $250 m) premier entertainment company by the year 2000. abcl's strategy was to introduce products and services covering an entire cross-section of india's entertainment industry. abcl's operations were mainstream commercial film production and distribution, audio cassettes and video discs, production and marketing of television software, and celebrity and event management. soon after the company was launched in 1996, the first film it produced was tere mere sapne, which did not fare well at the boxoffice but launched the careers of actors like arshad warsi and south films star simran. abcl produced a few other films, none of which did well.
in 1997, bachchan attempted to make his acting comeback with the film mrityudata, produced by abcl. though mrityudaata attempted to reprise bachchan's earlier success as an action hero, the film was a failure both financially and critically. abcl was the main sponsor of the 1996 miss world beauty pageant, bangalore but lost millions. the fiasco and the consequent legal battles surrounding abcl and various entities after the event, coupled with the fact that abcl was reported to have overpaid most of its top level managers, eventually led to its financial and operational collapse in 1997. the company went into administration and was later declared a failed company by indian industries board. the bombay high court, in april 1999, restrained bachchan from selling off his bombay bungalow 'prateeksha' and two flats till the pending loan recovery cases of canara bank were disposed of. bachchan had, however, pleaded that he had mortgaged his bungalow to raise funds for his company.
bachchan attempted to revive his acting career and had average success with bade miyan chote miyan (1998), and received positive reviews for sooryavansham (1999) but other films such as lal baadshah (1999) and hindustan ki kasam (1999) were box office failures.


=== return to prominence: 2000 presentedit ===

in 2000, amitabh bachchan appeared in yash chopra's box-office hit, mohabbatein, directed by aditya chopra. he played a stern, older figure that rivalled the character of shahrukh khan. his role won him his third filmfare best supporting actor award. other hits followed, with bachchan appearing as an older family patriarch in ek rishtaa: the bond of love (2001), kabhi khushi kabhie gham... (2001) and baghban (2003). as an actor, he continued to perform in a range of characters, receiving critical praise for his performances in aks (2001), aankhen (2002), khakee (2004) and dev (2004). one project that did particularly well for bachchan was sanjay leela bhansali's black (2005). the film starred bachchan as an ageing teacher of a deaf-blind girl and followed their relationship. his performance was unanimously praised by critics and audiences and won him his second national film award for best actor and fourth filmfare best actor award. taking advantage of this resurgence, amitabh began endorsing a variety of products and services, appearing in many television and billboard advertisements. in 2005 and 2006, he starred with his son abhishek in the hit films bunty aur babli (2005), the godfather tribute sarkar (2005), and kabhi alvida naa kehna (2006). all of them were successful at the box office. his later releases in 2006 and early 2007 were baabul (2006), ekalavya and nishabd (2007), which failed to do well at the box office but his performances in each of them were praised by critics.
in may 2007, two of his films cheeni kum and the multi-starrer shootout at lokhandwala were released. shootout at lokhandwala did well at the box office and was declared a semi-hit in india, while cheeni kum picked up after a slow start and only had average success. a remake of his biggest hit, sholay (1975), entitled ram gopal varma ki aag, released in august of that same year and proved to be a major commercial failure in addition to its poor critical reception. the year also marked bachchan's first appearance in an english-language film, rituparno ghosh's the last lear. the film premiered at the 2007 toronto international film festival on 9 september 2007. he received positive reviews from critics who hailed his performance as his best ever since black. bachchan was slated to play a supporting role in his first international film, shantaram, directed by mira nair and starring hollywood actor johnny depp in the lead. the film was due to begin filming in february 2008 but due to the writer's strike, was pushed to september 2008. the film is currently "shelved" indefinitely. vivek sharma's bhoothnath, in which he plays the title role as a ghost, was released on 9 may 2008. sarkar raj, the sequel of the 2005 film sarkar, released in june 2008 and received a positive response at the box-office. paa, which released at the end of 2009 was a highly anticipated project as it saw him playing his own son abhishek's progeria-affected 13-year-old son, and it opened to favourable reviews, particularly towards bachchan's performance. it won him his third national film award for best actor and fifth filmfare best actor award. in 2010, he debuted in malayalam film through kandahar, directed by major ravi and co-starring mohanlal. the film was based on the hijacking incident of the indian airlines flight 814. bachchan declined any remuneration for this film. in 2013 he made his hollywood debut in the great gatsby playing the role of meyer wolfsheim opposite leonardo dicaprio and tobey maguire.


=== television careeredit ===

in 2000, bachchan hosted the first season of kaun banega crorepati (kbc), the indian adaptation of the british television game show, who wants to be a millionaire?. the show was well received. a second season followed in 2005 but its run was cut short by star plus when bachchan fell ill in 2006.
in 2009, bachchan hosted the third season of the reality show bigg boss.
in 2010, bachchan hosted the fourth season of kbc. the fifth season started on 15 august 2011 and ended on 17 november 2011. the show became a massive hit with audiences and broke many trp records. cnn ibn awarded indian of the year- entertainment to team kbc and bachchan. the show also grabbed all the major awards for its category.
the sixth season was also hosted by bachchan, commencing on 7 september 2012, broadcast on sony tv and received the highest number of viewers thus far.
in 2014, he debuted in the fictional sony entertainment television tv series titled yudh playing the lead role of a businessman battling both his personal and professional life.
bachchan is also the brand ambassador for gujarat tourism, which he has been since 1 february 2010.


=== voiceedit ===

bachchan is known for his deep, baritone voice. he has been a narrator, a playback singer, and presenter for numerous programmes. renowned film director satyajit ray was so impressed with bachchan's voice that he decided to use bachchan as the narrator in his 1977 film shatranj ke khilari (the chess players). bachchan lent his voice as a narrator to the 2001 movie lagaan which was a super hit. in 2005, bachchan lent his voice to the oscar-winning french documentary march of the penguins, directed by luc jacquet.
he also done voice over work for the following movies:
balika badhu (1975)
tere mere sapne (1996)
lagaan (2001)
parineeta (2005)
jodhaa akbar (2008)
swami (2007)
zor lagaa ke...haiya! (2009)
kahaani (2012)
krrish 3 (2013)
mahabharat (2013)
kochadaiiyaan (hindi version) (2014)


== humanitarian causesedit ==
amitabh bachchan has been involved in many social works. amitabh donated  11 lakh (us$17,000) to clear the debts of nearly 40 beleaguered farmers in andhra pradesh. he also donated  30 lakh (us$45,000) to clear the debts of some 100 vidarbha farmers. in 2010, he donated  11 lakh (us$17,000) for resul pookutty's foundation, for medical centre at kochi. amitabh bachchan donateed  2.5 lakh (us$3,800) to delhi police constable subhash chand tomar's family, who died after succumbing to injuries during anti-gangrape protest for 2012 delhi gang rape. he opened a harivansh rai bachchan memorial trust, or hrb memorial trust in his father's name in 2013. amitabh bachchan was made unicef goodwill ambassador for polio eradication campaign in india in 2002, when 1,556 polio cases were detected that year . on 27 march 2014, world health organization (who) declared india a polio free country with no case of disease being reported in the previous three years. in 2013, amitabh and his family donated  25 lakh (us$38,000) to charitable trust plan india, that works for the upliftment of the girl child in india. amitabh bachchan donated  11 lakh (us$17,000) to maharashtra police welfare fund in 2013. amitabh was the face of 'save our tigers' campaign that promoted the importance of tiger conservation in india.
amitabh also supported peta india's campaign to free, sunder, a 14-year-old elephant who was chained and tortured in a temple in kolhapur, maharashtra. after the elephant was freed and rehabilitated in bannerghatta national park in bangalore, he was reported to tweet,  @petaindia has turned elephant sunder s home into free-roaming, forested sanctuary... feeling good i contributed to this cause ! 
in 2014, it was announced that he had recorded his voice and lent his image to the hindi and english language versions of the teachaids software, an international hiv/aids prevention education tool developed at stanford university.


== business investmentsedit ==
amitabh bachchan has invested in many upcoming business ventures. in 2013, he bought a 10% stake in just dial from which he made a gain of 4600 percent. he holds a 3.4% equity in stampede capital, a financial technology firm specializing in cloud computing for financial markets. the bachchan family also bought shares worth $252,000 in meridian tech, a consulting company in u.s. recently they made their first overseas investment in ziddu.com, a cloud based content distribution platform.


== awards, honours and recognitionsedit ==

apart from national film awards, filmfare awards and other competitive awards which bachchan won for his performances throughout the years, he has been awarded several honours for his achievements in the indian film industry. in 1991, he became the first artist to receive the filmfare lifetime achievement award, which was established in the name of raj kapoor. bachchan was crowned as superstar of the millennium in 2000 at the filmfare awards. the government of india awarded him with the padma shri in 1984, the padma bhushan in 2001 and the padma vibhushan in 2015. france's highest civilian honour, the knight of the legion of honour, was conferred upon him by the french government in 2007 for his "exceptional career in the world of cinema and beyond". in 2011, actor dilip kumar blogged that black should have been nominated for an oscar. kumar added: "if any indian actor, in my personal opinion, deserves the world's most coveted award, it is you."
in 1999, bachchan was voted the "greatest star of stage or screen" in a bbc your millennium online poll. the organisation noted that "many people in the western world will not have heard of [him] ... [but it] is a reflection of the huge popularity of indian films." in 2001, he was honoured with the actor of the century award at the alexandria international film festival in egypt in recognition of his contribution to the world of cinema. many other honours for his achievements were conferred upon him at several international film festivals, including the lifetime achievement award at the 2010 asian film awards.
in june 2000, he became the first living asian to have been modeled in wax at london's madame tussauds wax museum. another statue was installed in new york in 2009, hong kong in 2011, bangkok in 2011 and washington, dc in 2012.

in 2003, he was conferred with the honorary citizenship of the french town of deauville.
he was honoured with an honorary doctorate by the university of jhansi, india, in 2004, the university of delhi in 2006, the de montfort university in leicester, uk, in 2006, the leeds metropolitan university in yorkshire, uk, in 2007, the queensland university of technology in brisbane, australia, in 2011 the jodhpur national university in 2013. and the academy of arts (egypt) in cairo, egypt, in 2015.
on 27 july 2012, bachchan carried the olympic torch during the last leg of its relay in london's southwark.
severals books have been written about bachchan. amitabh bachchan: the legend was published in 1999, to be or not to be: amitabh bachchan in 2004, ab: the legend (a photographer's tribute) in 2006, amitabh bachchan: ek jeevit kimvadanti in 2006, amitabh: the making of a superstar in 2006, looking for the big b: bollywood, bachchan and me in 2007 and bachchanalia in 2009.
bachchan himself wrote a book in 2002: soul curry for you and me   an empowering philosophy that can enrich your life. in the early 80s, bachchan authorised the use of his likeness for the comic book character supremo in a series titled the adventures of amitabh bachchan. in may 2014, la trobe university in australia named a scholarship after bachchan.
he was named "hottest vegetarian" by peta india in 2012. he won the title of "asia's sexiest vegetarian" in a contest poll run by peta asia


== selected filmographyedit ==


== referencesedit ==


== further readingedit ==
mazumdar, ranjani. bombay cinema: an archive of the city. minneapolis: university of minnesota press, 2007 isbn 978-0-8166-4942-6
bhawana somaaya (1 february 1999). amitabh bachchan: the legend. macmillan india limited. isbn 978-0-333-93355-8. 
bhawana somaaya (2009). bachchanalia: the films and memorabilia of amitabh bachchan. osian's-connoisseurs of art. isbn 978-81-8174-027-4. 
roy, s. (2006). "an exploratory study in celebrity endorsements". journal of creative communications 1 (2): 139 153. doi:10.1177/097325860600100201. issn 0973-2586. 
kavi, ashok row (2008). "the changing image of the hero in hindi films". journal of homosexuality 39 (3-4): 307 312. doi:10.1300/j082v39n03_15. issn 0091-8369. 
rao, r. raj (2008). "memories pierce the heart". journal of homosexuality 39 (3-4): 299 306. doi:10.1300/j082v39n03_14. issn 0091-8369. 
mishra, vijay; jeffery, peter; shoesmith, brian (1989). "the actor as parallel text in bombay cinema". quarterly review of film and video 11 (3): 49 67. doi:10.1080/10509208909361314. issn 1050-9208. 
larkin, brian (1997). "indian films and nigerian lovers: media and the creation of parallel modernities". africa: journal of the international african institute 67 (3): 406. doi:10.2307/1161182. issn 0001-9720. 
shah, svati p. (2008). "south asian border crossings and sex work: revisiting the question of migration in anti-trafficking interventions". sexuality research and social policy 5 (4): 19 30. doi:10.1525/srsp.2008.5.4.19. issn 1868-9884. 
rajadhyaksha, ashish (2003). "the 'bollywoodization' of the indian cinema: cultural nationalism in a global arena". inter-asia cultural studies 4 (1): 25 39. doi:10.1080/1464937032000060195. issn 1464-9373. 
mallapragada, m. (2006). "home, homeland, homepage: belonging and the indian-american web". new media & society 8 (2): 207 227. doi:10.1177/1461444806061943. issn 1461-4448. 
gopinath, gayatri (2008). "queering bollywood". journal of homosexuality 39 (3-4): 283 297. doi:10.1300/j082v39n03_13. issn 0091-8369. 
jain, pankaj (2009). "fromkil-arni to anthony: the portrayal of christians in indian films". visual anthropology 23 (1): 13 19. doi:10.1080/08949460903368887. issn 0894-9468. 
punathambekar, aswin (2010). "reality tv and participatory culture in india". popular communication 8 (4): 241 255. doi:10.1080/15405702.2010.514177. issn 1540-5702. 
aftab, kaleem (2002). "brown: the new black! bollywood in britain". critical quarterly 44 (3): 88 98. doi:10.1111/1467-8705.00435. issn 0011-1562. 
jha, priya (2003). "lyrical nationalism: gender, friendship, and excess in 1970s hindi cinema". the velvet light trap 51 (1): 43 53. doi:10.1353/vlt.2003.0007. issn 1542-4251. 
jones, matthew (2009). "bollywood,rasa and indian cinema: misconceptions, meanings and millionaire". visual anthropology 23 (1): 33 43. doi:10.1080/08949460903368895. issn 0894-9468. 
garwood, ian (2006). "the songless bollywood film". south asian popular culture 4 (2): 169 183. doi:10.1080/14746680600797210. issn 1474-6689. 


== external linksedit ==

amitabh bachchan's official blog
amitabh bachchan at the internet movie database
amitabh bachchan on bollywood hungama
british academy of film and television arts brochure

srinivasa ramanujan iyengar frs (pronunciation: /sri .ni.va .s  ra .ma .n .d  n/) (22 december 1887   26 april 1920) was an indian mathematician and autodidact who, with almost no formal training in pure mathematics, made extraordinary contributions to mathematical analysis, number theory, infinite series, and continued fractions. ramanujan initially developed his own mathematical research in isolation; it was quickly recognized by indian mathematicians. when his skills became apparent to the wider mathematical community, centred in europe at the time, he began a famous partnership with the english mathematician g. h. hardy. he rediscovered previously known theorems in addition to producing new work.
during his short life, ramanujan independently compiled nearly 3900 results (mostly identities and equations). nearly all his claims have now been proven correct, although some were already known. he stated results that were both original and highly unconventional, such as the ramanujan prime and the ramanujan theta function, and these have inspired a vast amount of further research. the ramanujan journal, an international publication, was launched to publish work in all areas of mathematics influenced by his work.


== early lifeedit ==

ramanujan was born on 22 december 1887 in erode, madras presidency (now pallipalayam, erode, tamil nadu), at the residence of his maternal grandparents in a brahmin family. his father, k. srinivasa iyengar, worked as a clerk in a sari shop and hailed from the district of thanjavur. his mother, komalatammal, was a housewife and also sang at a local temple. they lived in sarangapani street in a traditional home in the town of kumbakonam. the family home is now a museum. when ramanujan was a year and a half old, his mother gave birth to a son named sadagopan, who died less than three months later. in december 1889, ramanujan had smallpox and recovered, unlike thousands in the thanjavur district who died from the disease that year. he moved with his mother to her parents' house in kanchipuram, near madras (now chennai). in november 1891, and again in 1894, his mother gave birth to two children, but both children died in infancy.
on 1 october 1892, ramanujan was enrolled at the local school. in march 1894, he was moved to a tamil medium school. after his maternal grandfather lost his job as a court official in kanchipuram, ramanujan and his mother moved back to kumbakonam and he was enrolled in the kangayan primary school. when his paternal grandfather died, he was sent back to his maternal grandparents, who were then living in madras. he did not like school in madras, and he tried to avoid attending. his family enlisted a local constable to make sure he attended school. within six months, ramanujan was back in kumbakonam.
since ramanujan's father was at work most of the day, his mother took care of him as a child. he had a close relationship with her. from her, he learned about tradition and puranas. he learned to sing religious songs, to attend pujas at the temple and particular eating habits   all of which are part of brahmin culture. at the kangayan primary school, ramanujan performed well. just before the age of 10, in november 1897, he passed his primary examinations in english, tamil, geography and arithmetic. with his scores, he stood first in the district. that year, ramanujan entered town higher secondary school where he encountered formal mathematics for the first time.
by age 11, he had exhausted the mathematical knowledge of two college students who were lodgers at his home. he was later lent a book on advanced trigonometry written by s. l. loney. he completely mastered this book by the age of 13 and discovered sophisticated theorems on his own. by 14, he was receiving merit certificates and academic awards which continued throughout his school career and also assisted the school in the logistics of assigning its 1200 students (each with their own needs) to its 35-odd teachers. he completed mathematical exams in half the allotted time, and showed a familiarity with geometry and infinite series. ramanujan was shown how to solve cubic equations in 1902 and he went on to find his own method to solve the quartic. the following year, not knowing that the quintic could not be solved by radicals, he tried to solve the quintic.
in 1903 when he was 16, ramanujan obtained from a friend a library-loaned copy of a book by g. s. carr. the book was titled a synopsis of elementary results in pure and applied mathematics and was a collection of 5000 theorems. ramanujan reportedly studied the contents of the book in detail. the book is generally acknowledged as a key element in awakening the genius of ramanujan. the next year, he had independently developed and investigated the bernoulli numbers and had calculated the euler mascheroni constant up to 15 decimal places. his peers at the time commented that they "rarely understood him" and "stood in respectful awe" of him.
when he graduated from town higher secondary school in 1904, ramanujan was awarded the k. ranganatha rao prize for mathematics by the school's headmaster, krishnaswami iyer. iyer introduced ramanujan as an outstanding student who deserved scores higher than the maximum possible marks. he received a scholarship to study at government arts college, kumbakonam, however, ramanujan was so intent on studying mathematics that he could not focus on any other subjects and failed most of them, losing his scholarship in the process. in august 1905, he ran away from home, heading towards visakhapatnam and stayed in rajahmundry for about a month. he later enrolled at pachaiyappa's college in madras. he again excelled in mathematics but performed poorly in other subjects such as physiology. ramanujan failed his fellow of arts exam in december 1906 and again a year later. without a degree, he left college and continued to pursue independent research in mathematics. at this point in his life, he lived in extreme poverty and was often on the brink of starvation.


== adulthood in indiaedit ==
on 14 july 1909, ramanujan was married to a ten-year-old bride, janakiammal (21 march 1899   13 april 1994). she came from rajendram, a village close to marudur (karur district) railway station. ramanujan's father did not participate in the marriage ceremony.
after the marriage, ramanujan developed a hydrocele testis, an abnormal swelling of the tunica vaginalis, an internal membrane in the testicle. the condition could be treated with a routine surgical operation that would release the blocked fluid in the scrotal sac. his family did not have the money for the operation, but in january 1910, a doctor volunteered to do the surgery for free.
after his successful surgery, ramanujan searched for a job. he stayed at friends' houses while he went door to door around the city of madras (now chennai) looking for a clerical position. to make some money, he tutored some students at presidency college who were preparing for their f.a. exam.
in late 1910, ramanujan was sick again, possibly as a result of the surgery earlier in the year. he feared for his health, and even told his friend, r. radakrishna iyer, to "hand these [ramanujan's mathematical notebooks] over to professor singaravelu mudaliar [the mathematics professor at pachaiyappa's college] or to the british professor edward b. ross, of the madras christian college." after ramanujan recovered and retrieved his notebooks from iyer, he took a northbound train from kumbakonam to villupuram, a coastal city under french control.


=== attention towards mathematicsedit ===
ramanujan met deputy collector v. ramaswamy aiyer, who had recently founded the indian mathematical society. ramanujan, wishing for a job at the revenue department where ramaswamy aiyer worked, showed him his mathematics notebooks. as ramaswamy aiyer later recalled:

i was struck by the extraordinary mathematical results contained in it [the notebooks]. i had no mind to smother his genius by an appointment in the lowest rungs of the revenue department.

ramaswamy aiyer sent ramanujan, with letters of introduction, to his mathematician friends in madras. some of these friends looked at his work and gave him letters of introduction to r. ramachandra rao, the district collector for nellore and the secretary of the indian mathematical society. ramachandra rao was impressed by ramanujan's research but doubted that it was actually his own work. ramanujan mentioned a correspondence he had with professor saldhana, a notable bombay mathematician, in which saldhana expressed a lack of understanding of his work but concluded that he was not a phoney. ramanujan's friend, c. v. rajagopalachari, persisted with ramachandra rao and tried to quell any doubts over ramanujan's academic integrity. rao agreed to give him another chance, and he listened as ramanujan discussed elliptic integrals, hypergeometric series, and his theory of divergent series, which rao said ultimately "converted" him to a belief in ramanujan's mathematical brilliance. when rao asked him what he wanted, ramanujan replied that he needed some work and financial support. rao consented and sent him to madras. he continued his mathematical research with rao's financial aid taking care of his daily needs. ramanujan, with the help of ramaswamy aiyer, had his work published in the journal of the indian mathematical society.
one of the first problems he posed in the journal was:

he waited for a solution to be offered in three issues, over six months, but failed to receive any. at the end, ramanujan supplied the solution to the problem himself. on page 105 of his first notebook, he formulated an equation that could be used to solve the infinitely nested radicals problem.

using this equation, the answer to the question posed in the journal was simply 3. ramanujan wrote his first formal paper for the journal on the properties of bernoulli numbers. one property he discovered was that the denominators (sequence a027642 in oeis) of the fractions of bernoulli numbers were always divisible by six. he also devised a method of calculating bn based on previous bernoulli numbers. one of these methods went as follows:
it will be observed that if n is even but not equal to zero,
(i) bn is a fraction and the numerator of  in its lowest terms is a prime number,
(ii) the denominator of bn contains each of the factors 2 and 3 once and only once,
(iii)  is an integer and  consequently is an odd integer.
in his 17-page paper, "some properties of bernoulli's numbers", ramanujan gave three proofs, two corollaries and three conjectures. ramanujan's writing initially had many flaws. as journal editor m. t. narayana iyengar noted:

mr. ramanujan's methods were so terse and novel and his presentation so lacking in clearness and precision, that the ordinary [mathematical reader], unaccustomed to such intellectual gymnastics, could hardly follow him.

ramanujan later wrote another paper and also continued to provide problems in the journal. in early 1912, he got a temporary job in the madras accountant general's office, with a salary of 20 rupees per month. he lasted for only a few weeks. toward the end of that assignment he applied for a position under the chief accountant of the madras port trust. in a letter dated 9 february 1912, ramanujan wrote:

sir,
i understand there is a clerkship vacant in your office, and i beg to apply for the same. i have passed the matriculation examination and studied up to the f.a. but was prevented from pursuing my studies further owing to several untoward circumstances. i have, however, been devoting all my time to mathematics and developing the subject. i can say i am quite confident i can do justice to my work if i am appointed to the post. i therefore beg to request that you will be good enough to confer the appointment on me.

attached to his application was a recommendation from e. w. middlemast, a mathematics professor at the presidency college, who wrote that ramanujan was "a young man of quite exceptional capacity in mathematics". three weeks after he had applied, on 1 march, ramanujan learned that he had been accepted as a class iii, grade iv accounting clerk, making 30 rupees per month. at his office, ramanujan easily and quickly completed the work he was given, so he spent his spare time doing mathematical research. ramanujan's boss, sir francis spring, and s. narayana iyer, a colleague who was also treasurer of the indian mathematical society, encouraged ramanujan in his mathematical pursuits.


=== contacting english mathematiciansedit ===
in the spring of 1913, narayana iyer, ramachandra rao and e. w. middlemast tried to present ramanujan's work to british mathematicians. one mathematician, m. j. m. hill of university college london, commented that ramanujan's papers were riddled with holes. he said that although ramanujan had "a taste for mathematics, and some ability", he lacked the educational background and foundation needed to be accepted by mathematicians. although hill did not offer to take ramanujan on as a student, he did give thorough and serious professional advice on his work. with the help of friends, ramanujan drafted letters to leading mathematicians at cambridge university.
the first two professors, h. f. baker and e. w. hobson, returned ramanujan's papers without comment. on 16 january 1913, ramanujan wrote to g. h. hardy. coming from an unknown mathematician, the nine pages of mathematics made hardy initially view ramanujan's manuscripts as a possible "fraud". hardy recognised some of ramanujan's formulae but others "seemed scarcely possible to believe". one of the theorems hardy found scarcely possible to believe was on the bottom of page three (valid for 0 < a < b + 1/2):

hardy was also impressed by some of ramanujan's other work relating to infinite series:

the first result had already been determined by a mathematician named bauer. the second one was new to hardy, and was derived from a class of functions called a hypergeometric series which had first been researched by leonhard euler and carl friedrich gauss. compared to ramanujan's work on integrals, hardy found these results "much more intriguing". after he saw ramanujan's theorems on continued fractions on the last page of the manuscripts, hardy commented that "they [theorems] defeated me completely; i had never seen anything in the least like them before". he figured that ramanujan's theorems "must be true, because, if they were not true, no one would have the imagination to invent them". hardy asked a colleague, j. e. littlewood, to take a look at the papers. littlewood was amazed by the mathematical genius of ramanujan. after discussing the papers with littlewood, hardy concluded that the letters were "certainly the most remarkable i have received" and commented that ramanujan was "a mathematician of the highest quality, a man of altogether exceptional originality and power". one colleague, e. h. neville, later commented that "not one [theorem] could have been set in the most advanced mathematical examination in the world".
on 8 february 1913, hardy wrote a letter to ramanujan, expressing his interest for his work. hardy also added that it was "essential that i should see proofs of some of your assertions". before his letter arrived in madras during the third week of february, hardy contacted the indian office to plan for ramanujan's trip to cambridge. secretary arthur davies of the advisory committee for indian students met with ramanujan to discuss the overseas trip. in accordance with his brahmin upbringing, ramanujan refused to leave his country to "go to a foreign land". meanwhile, ramanujan sent a letter packed with theorems to hardy, writing, "i have found a friend in you who views my labour sympathetically."
to supplement hardy's endorsement, a former mathematical lecturer at trinity college, cambridge, gilbert walker, looked at ramanujan's work and expressed amazement, urging him to spend time at cambridge. as a result of walker's endorsement, b. hanumantha rao, a mathematics professor at an engineering college, invited ramanujan's colleague narayana iyer to a meeting of the board of studies in mathematics to discuss "what we can do for s. ramanujan". the board agreed to grant ramanujan a research scholarship of 75 rupees per month for the next two years at the university of madras. while he was engaged as a research student, ramanujan continued to submit papers to the journal of the indian mathematical society. in one instance, narayana iyer submitted some theorems of ramanujan on summation of series to the above mathematical journal adding "the following theorem is due to s. ramanujan, the mathematics student of madras university". later in november, british professor edward b. ross of madras christian college, whom ramanujan had met a few years before, stormed into his class one day with his eyes glowing, asking his students, "does ramanujan know polish?" the reason was that in one paper, ramanujan had anticipated the work of a polish mathematician whose paper had just arrived by the day's mail. in his quarterly papers, ramanujan drew up theorems to make definite integrals more easily solvable. working off giuliano frullani's 1821 integral theorem, ramanujan formulated generalisations that could be made to evaluate formerly unyielding integrals.
hardy's correspondence with ramanujan soured after ramanujan refused to come to england. hardy enlisted a colleague lecturing in madras, e. h. neville, to mentor and bring ramanujan to england. neville asked ramanujan why he would not go to cambridge. ramanujan apparently had now accepted the proposal; as neville put it, "ramanujan needed no converting and that his parents' opposition had been withdrawn". apparently, ramanujan's mother had a vivid dream in which the family goddess, the deity of namagiri, commanded her "to stand no longer between her son and the fulfilment of his life's purpose". ramanujan then set sail for england, leaving his wife to stay with his parents in india.


== life in englandedit ==

ramanujan boarded the s.s. nevasa on 17 march 1914, and at 10 o'clock in the morning, the ship departed from madras. he arrived in london on 14 april, with e. h. neville waiting for him with a car. four days later, neville took him to his house on chesterton road in cambridge. ramanujan immediately began his work with littlewood and hardy. after six weeks, ramanujan moved out of neville's house and took up residence on whewell's court, just a five-minute walk from hardy's room. hardy and ramanujan began to take a look at ramanujan's notebooks. hardy had already received 120 theorems from ramanujan in the first two letters, but there were many more results and theorems to be found in the notebooks. hardy saw that some were wrong, others had already been discovered, while the rest were new breakthroughs. ramanujan left a deep impression on hardy and littlewood. littlewood commented, "i can believe that he's at least a jacobi", while hardy said he "can compare him only with [leonhard] euler or jacobi."
ramanujan spent nearly five years in cambridge collaborating with hardy and littlewood and published a part of his findings there. hardy and ramanujan had highly contrasting personalities. their collaboration was a clash of different cultures, beliefs and working styles. hardy was an atheist and an apostle of proof and mathematical rigour, whereas ramanujan was a deeply religious man and relied very strongly on his intuition. while in england, hardy tried his best to fill the gaps in ramanujan's education without interrupting his spell of inspiration.
ramanujan was awarded a bachelor of science degree by research (this degree was later renamed phd) in march 1916 for his work on highly composite numbers, the first part of which was published as a paper in the proceedings of the london mathematical society. the paper was over 50 pages with different properties of such numbers proven. hardy remarked that this was one of the most unusual papers seen in mathematical research at that time and that ramanujan showed extraordinary ingenuity in handling it. on 6 december 1917, he was elected to the london mathematical society. he became a fellow of the royal society in 1918, becoming the second indian to do so, following ardaseer cursetjee in 1841, and he was one of the youngest fellows in the history of the royal society. he was elected "for his investigation in elliptic functions and the theory of numbers." on 13 october 1918, he became the first indian to be elected a fellow of trinity college, cambridge.


=== illness and deathedit ===
plagued by health problems throughout his life, living in a country far away from home, and obsessively involved with his mathematics, ramanujan's health worsened in england, perhaps exacerbated by stress and by the scarcity of vegetarian food during the first world war. he was diagnosed with tuberculosis and a severe vitamin deficiency and was confined to a sanatorium.
ramanujan returned to kumbakonam, madras presidency in 1919 and died soon thereafter at the age of 32 in 1920. his widow, s. janaki ammal, moved to mumbai, but returned to chennai (formerly madras) in 1950, where she lived until her death at age 95 in 1994.
a 1994 analysis of ramanujan's medical records and symptoms by dr. d.a.b. young concluded that it was much more likely he had hepatic amoebiasis, a parasitic infection of the liver widespread in madras, where ramanujan had spent time. he had two episodes of dysentery before he left india. when not properly treated, dysentery can lie dormant for years and lead to hepatic amoebiasis, a difficult disease to diagnose, but once diagnosed readily cured.


=== personality and spiritual lifeedit ===
ramanujan has been described as a person with a somewhat shy and quiet disposition, a dignified man with pleasant manners. he lived a rather spartan life while at cambridge. ramanujan's first indian biographers describe him as rigorously orthodox. ramanujan credited his acumen to his family goddess, mahalakshmi of namakkal. he looked to her for inspiration in his work, and claimed to dream of blood drops that symbolised her male consort, narasimha, after which he would receive visions of scrolls of complex mathematical content unfolding before his eyes. he often said, "an equation for me has no meaning, unless it represents a thought of god."
hardy cites ramanujan as remarking that all religions seemed equally true to him. hardy further argued that ramanujan's religiousness had been romanticised by westerners and overstated in reference to his belief, not practice by indian biographers. at the same time, he remarked on ramanujan's strict observance of vegetarianism.


== mathematical achievementsedit ==
in mathematics, there is a distinction between having an insight and having a proof. ramanujan's talent suggested a plethora of formulae that could then be investigated in depth later. it is said by g. h. hardy that ramanujan's discoveries are unusually rich and that there is often more to them than initially meets the eye. as a by-product, new directions of research were opened up. examples of the most interesting of these formulae include the intriguing infinite series for  , one of which is given below

this result is based on the negative fundamental discriminant d =  4 58 =  232 with class number h(d) = 2 (note that 5 7 13 58 = 26390 and that 9801=99 99; 396=4 99) and is related to the fact that

compared to heegner numbers, which have class number 1 and yield similar formulae. ramanujan's series for   converges extraordinarily rapidly (exponentially) and forms the basis of some of the fastest algorithms currently used to calculate  . truncating the sum to the first term also gives the approximation  for  , which is correct to six decimal places. see also the more general ramanujan sato series.
one of his remarkable capabilities was the rapid solution for problems. he was sharing a room with p. c. mahalanobis who had a problem, "imagine that you are on a street with houses marked 1 through n. there is a house in between (x) such that the sum of the house numbers to the left of it equals the sum of the house numbers to its right. if n is between 50 and 500, what are n and x?" this is a bivariate problem with multiple solutions. ramanujan thought about it and gave the answer with a twist: he gave a continued fraction. the unusual part was that it was the solution to the whole class of problems. mahalanobis was astounded and asked how he did it. "it is simple. the minute i heard the problem, i knew that the answer was a continued fraction. which continued fraction, i asked myself. then the answer came to my mind", ramanujan replied.
his intuition also led him to derive some previously unknown identities, such as

for all , where  is the gamma function, and related to a special value of the dedekind eta function. expanding into series of powers and equating coefficients of , , and  gives some deep identities for the hyperbolic secant.
in 1918, hardy and ramanujan studied the partition function p(n) extensively and gave a non-convergent asymptotic series that permits exact computation of the number of partitions of an integer. hans rademacher, in 1937, was able to refine their formula to find an exact convergent series solution to this problem. ramanujan and hardy's work in this area gave rise to a powerful new method for finding asymptotic formulae, called the circle method.
he discovered mock theta functions in the last year of his life. for many years these functions were a mystery, but they are now known to be the holomorphic parts of harmonic weak maass forms.


=== the ramanujan conjectureedit ===

although there are numerous statements that could have borne the name ramanujan conjecture, there is one statement that was very influential on later work. in particular, the connection of this conjecture with conjectures of andr  weil in algebraic geometry opened up new areas of research. that ramanujan conjecture is an assertion on the size of the tau-function, which has as generating function the discriminant modular form  (q), a typical cusp form in the theory of modular forms. it was finally proven in 1973, as a consequence of pierre deligne's proof of the weil conjectures. the reduction step involved is complicated. deligne won a fields medal in 1978 for his work on weil conjectures.


=== ramanujan's notebooksedit ===

while still in madras, ramanujan recorded the bulk of his results in four notebooks of loose leaf paper. these results were mostly written up without any derivations. this is probably the origin of the misperception that ramanujan was unable to prove his results and simply thought up the final result directly. mathematician bruce c. berndt, in his review of these notebooks and ramanujan's work, says that ramanujan most certainly was able to make the proofs of most of his results, but chose not to.
this style of working may have been for several reasons. since paper was very expensive, ramanujan would do most of his work and perhaps his proofs on slate, and then transfer just the results to paper. using a slate was common for mathematics students in the madras presidency at the time. he was also quite likely to have been influenced by the style of g. s. carr's book studied in his youth, which stated results without proofs. finally, it is possible that ramanujan considered his workings to be for his personal interest alone; and therefore recorded only the results.
the first notebook has 351 pages with 16 somewhat organised chapters and some unorganised material. the second notebook has 256 pages in 21 chapters and 100 unorganised pages, with the third notebook containing 33 unorganised pages. the results in his notebooks inspired numerous papers by later mathematicians trying to prove what he had found. hardy himself created papers exploring material from ramanujan's work as did g. n. watson, b. m. wilson, and bruce berndt. a fourth notebook with 87 unorganised pages, the so-called "lost notebook", was rediscovered in 1976 by george andrews.
notebooks 1, 2 and 3 were published as a two-volume set in 1957 by the tata institute of fundamental research (tifr), mumbai, india. this was a photocopy edition of the original manuscripts, in his own handwriting.
in december 2011, as part of the celebrations of the 125th anniversary of ramanujan's birth, tifr republished the notebooks in a coloured two-volume collector's edition. these were produced from scanned and microfilmed images of the original manuscripts by expert archivists of roja muthiah research library, chennai.


== hardy ramanujan number 1729edit ==

the number 1729 is known as the hardy ramanujan number after a famous anecdote of the british mathematician g. h. hardy regarding a visit to the hospital to see ramanujan. in hardy's words:

i remember once going to see him when he was ill at putney. i had ridden in taxi cab number 1729 and remarked that the number seemed to me rather a dull one, and that i hoped it was not an unfavorable omen. 'no', he replied, 'it is a very interesting number; it is the smallest number expressible as the sum of two cubes in two different ways.'

the two different ways are
1729 = 13 + 123 = 93 + 103.
generalizations of this idea have created the notion of "taxicab numbers". coincidentally, 1729 is also a carmichael number.


== other mathematicians' views of ramanujanedit ==
hardy said : "he combined a power of generalization, a feeling for form, and a capacity for rapid modification of his hypotheses, that were often really startling, and made him, in his own peculiar field, without a rival in his day. the limitations of his knowledge were as startling as its profundity. here was a man who could work out modular equations and theorems... to orders unheard of, whose mastery of continued fractions was... beyond that of any mathematician in the world, who had found for himself the functional equation of the zeta function and the dominant terms of many of the most famous problems in the analytic theory of numbers; and yet he had never heard of a doubly periodic function or of cauchy's theorem, and had indeed but the vaguest idea of what a function of a complex variable was...". when asked about the methods employed by ramanujan to arrive at his solutions, hardy said that they were "arrived at by a process of mingled argument, intuition, and induction, of which he was entirely unable to give any coherent account." he also stated that he had "never met his equal, and can compare him only with euler or jacobi."
quoting k. srinivasa rao, "as for his place in the world of mathematics, we quote bruce c. berndt: 'paul erd s has passed on to us hardy's personal ratings of mathematicians. suppose that we rate mathematicians on the basis of pure talent on a scale from 0 to 100, hardy gave himself a score of 25, j.e. littlewood 30, david hilbert 80 and ramanujan 100.'"
professor bruce c. berndt of the university of illinois, during a lecture at iit madras in may 2011, stated that over the last 40 years, as nearly all of ramanujan's theorems have been proven right, there had been a greater appreciation of ramanujan's work and brilliance. further, he stated ramanujan's work was now pervading many areas of modern mathematics and physics.
in his book scientific edge, the physicist jayant narlikar spoke of "srinivasa ramanujan, discovered by the cambridge mathematician hardy, whose great mathematical findings were beginning to be appreciated from 1915 to 1919. his achievements were to be fully understood much later, well after his untimely death in 1920. for example, his work on the highly composite numbers (numbers with a large number of factors) started a whole new line of investigations in the theory of such numbers."
during his lifelong mission in educating and propagating mathematics among the school children in india, nigeria and elsewhere, p.k. srinivasan has continually introduced ramanujan's mathematical works.


== posthumous recognitionedit ==

ramanujan's home state of tamil nadu celebrates 22 december (ramanujan's birthday) as 'state it day', memorialising both the man and his achievements, as a native of tamil nadu. a stamp picturing ramanujan was released by the government of india in 1962   the 75th anniversary of ramanujan's birth   commemorating his achievements in the field of number theory, and a new design was issued on 26 december 2011, by the india post.
since the centennial year of ramanujan, every year 22 dec, is celebrated as ramanujan day by the government arts college, kumbakonam where he had studied and later dropped out. it is celebrated by the department of mathematics by organising one-, two-, or three-day seminars by inviting eminent scholars from universities/colleges, and participants are mainly students of mathematics, research scholars, and professors from local colleges. it was planned to celebrate the 125th birthday in a grand manner by inviting the foreign eminent mathematical scholars of this century viz., g e andrews. and bruce c berndt, who are very familiar with the contributions and works of ramanujan.
ramanujan's work and life are celebrated on 22 december at the indian institute of technology (iit), madras in chennai. the department of mathematics celebrates this day by organising a national symposium on mathematical methods and applications (nsmma) for one day by inviting eminent indian and foreign scholars.
a prize for young mathematicians from developing countries has been created in the name of ramanujan by the international centre for theoretical physics (ictp), in co-operation with the international mathematical union, which nominate members of the prize committee. the shanmugha arts, science, technology & research academy (sastra), based in the state of tamil nadu in south india, has instituted the sastra ramanujan prize of $10,000 to be given annually to a mathematician not exceeding the age of 32 for outstanding contributions in an area of mathematics influenced by ramanujan. the age limit refers to the years ramanujan lived, having nevertheless still achieved many accomplishments. this prize has been awarded annually since 2005, at an international conference conducted by sastra in kumbakonam, ramanujan's hometown, around ramanujan's birthday, 22 december.
on the 125th anniversary of his birth, india declared the birthday of ramanujan, 22 december, as 'national mathematics day.' the declaration was made by dr. manmohan singh in chennai on 26 december 2011. dr manmohan singh also declared that the year 2012 would be celebrated as the national mathematics year. his residence is now preserved by sastra university in kumbakonam.


== in popular cultureedit ==
ramanujan, an indo-british collaboration film, chronicling the life of ramanujan, was released in 2014 by the independent film company camphor cinema. the cast and crew include director gnana rajasekaran, cinematographer sunny joseph and editor b. lenin. popular indian and english stars abhinay vaddi, suhasini maniratnam, bhama, kevin mcgowan and michael lieber star in pivotal roles.
a feature film is being made based on the book the man who knew infinity: a life of the genius ramanujan by robert kanigel; matt brown will direct on his own written script. dev patel will play srinivasa ramanujan, jeremy irons will play g. h. hardy and devika bhise will play ramanujan s wife. filming is set to begin on 3 august 2014 at trinity college, cambridge.
a play, first class man by alter ego productions, was based on david freeman's first class man. the play is centred around ramanujan and his complex and dysfunctional relationship with hardy. on 16 october 2011, it was announced that roger spottiswoode, best known for his james bond film tomorrow never dies, is working on the film version, starring actor siddharth. like the book and play it is also titled the first class man.
a disappearing number is a recent british stage production by the company complicite that explores the relationship between hardy and ramanujan.
the novel the indian clerk by david leavitt explores in fiction the events following ramanujan's letter to hardy.
google honoured him on his 125th birth anniversary by replacing its logo with a doodle on its home page.
ramanujan was mentioned in the 1997 film good will hunting, in a scene where professor gerald lambeau (stellan skarsgard) explains to sean maguire (robin williams) the genius of will hunting (matt damon) by comparing him to ramanujan.
on 22 march 1988, the pbs series nova aired a documentary about ramanujan, "the man who loved numbers" (season 15, episode 19).
the television series numb3rs has the character dr. amita ramanujan, a professor of applied mathematics, named after ramanujan.
ramanujan's story is both referenced and echoed in cyril m. kornbluth's "gomez".


== see alsoedit ==


== notesedit ==


== selected publications by ramanujanedit ==
srinivasa ramanujan, g. h. hardy, p. v. seshu aiyar, b. m. wilson, bruce c. berndt (2000). collected papers of srinivasa ramanujan. ams. isbn 0-8218-2076-1. 
this book was originally published in 1927 after ramanujan's death. it contains the 37 papers published in professional journals by ramanujan during his lifetime. the third reprint contains additional commentary by bruce c. berndt.
s. ramanujan (1957). notebooks (2 volumes). bombay: tata institute of fundamental research. 
these books contain photocopies of the original notebooks as written by ramanujan.
s. ramanujan (1988). the lost notebook and other unpublished papers. new delhi: narosa. isbn 3-540-18726-x. 
this book contains photo copies of the pages of the "lost notebook".
problems posed by ramanujan, journal of the indian mathematical society.
s. ramanujan (2012). notebooks (2 volumes). bombay: tata institute of fundamental research. 
this was produced from scanned and microfilmed images of the original manuscripts by expert archivists of roja muthiah research library, chennai.


== selected publications about ramanujan and his workedit ==
berndt, bruce c. (1998). butzer, p. l.; oberschelp, w.; jongen, h. th., ed. charlemagne and his heritage: 1200 years of civilization and science in europe (pdf). turnhout, belgium: brepols verlag. pp. 119 146. isbn 2-503-50673-9. 
berndt, bruce c.; andrews, george e. (2005). ramanujan's lost notebook. part i. new york: springer. isbn 0-387-25529-x. 
berndt, bruce c.; andrews, george e. (2008). ramanujan's lost notebook. part ii. new york: springer. isbn 978-0-387-77765-8. 
berndt, bruce c.; andrews, george e. (2012). ramanujan's lost notebook. part iii. new york: springer. isbn 978-1-4614-3809-0. 
berndt, bruce c.; andrews, george e. (2013). ramanujan's lost notebook. part iv. new york: springer. isbn 978-1-4614-4080-2. 
berndt, bruce c.; rankin, robert a. (1995). ramanujan: letters and commentary 9. providence, rhode island: american mathematical society. isbn 0-8218-0287-9. 
berndt, bruce c.; rankin, robert a. (2001). ramanujan: essays and surveys 22. providence, rhode island: american mathematical society. isbn 0-8218-2624-7. 
berndt, bruce c. (2006). number theory in the spirit of ramanujan 9. providence, rhode island: american mathematical society. isbn 0-8218-4178-5. 
berndt, bruce c. (1985). ramanujan's notebooks. part i. new york: springer. isbn 0-387-96110-0. 
berndt, bruce c. (1999). ramanujan's notebooks. part ii. new york: springer. isbn 0-387-96794-x. 
berndt, bruce c. (2004). ramanujan's notebooks. part iii. new york: springer. isbn 0-387-97503-9. 
berndt, bruce c. (1993). ramanujan's notebooks. part iv. new york: springer. isbn 0-387-94109-6. 
berndt, bruce c. (2005). ramanujan's notebooks. part v. new york: springer. isbn 0-387-94941-0. 
hardy, g. h. (1978). ramanujan. new york: chelsea pub. co. isbn 0-8284-0136-5. 
hardy, g. h. (1999). ramanujan: twelve lectures on subjects suggested by his life and work. providence, rhode island: american mathematical society. isbn 0-8218-2023-0. 
henderson, harry (1995). modern mathematicians. new york: facts on file inc. isbn 0-8160-3235-1. 
kanigel, robert (1991). the man who knew infinity: a life of the genius ramanujan. new york: charles scribner's sons. isbn 0-684-19259-4. 
kolata, gina (19 june 1987). "remembering a 'magical genius'". science, new series (american association for the advancement of science) 236 (4808): 1519 1521. doi:10.1126/science.236.4808.1519. 
leavitt, david (2007). the indian clerk (paperback ed.). london: bloomsbury. isbn 978-0-7475-9370-6. 
narlikar, jayant v. (2003). scientific edge: the indian scientist from vedic to modern times. new delhi, india: penguin books. isbn 0-14-303028-0. 
sankaran, t. m. (2005). "srinivasa ramanujan- ganitha lokathile mahaprathibha" (in malayalam). kochi, india: kerala sastra sahithya parishath. 


== external linksedit ==


=== media linksedit ===
biswas, soutik (16 march 2006). "film to celebrate mathematics genius". bbc. retrieved 24 august 2006. 
feature film on mathematics genius ramanujan by dev benegal and stephen fry
bbc radio programme about ramanujan   episode 5
a biographical song about ramanujan's life


=== biographical linksedit ===
srinivasa ramanujan at the mathematics genealogy project
o'connor, john j.; robertson, edmund f., "srinivasa ramanujan", mactutor history of mathematics archive, university of st andrews .
weisstein, eric w., ramanujan, srinivasa (1887 1920) from scienceworld.
srinivasa aiyangar ramanujan
a short biography of ramanujan
"our devoted site for great mathematical genius"


=== other linksedit ===
a study group for mathematics: srinivasa ramanujan iyengar
the ramanujan journal   an international journal devoted to ramanujan
international math union prizes, including a ramanujan prize.
hindu.com: norwegian and indian mathematical geniuses, ramanujan   essays and surveys, ramanujan's growing influence, ramanujan's mentor
hindu.com: the sponsor of ramanujan
bruce c. berndt; robert a. rankin (2000). "the books studied by ramanujan in india". american mathematical monthly (mathematical association of america) 107 (7): 595 601. doi:10.2307/2589114. jstor 2589114. mr 1786233. 
"ramanujan's mock theta function puzzle solved"
ramanujan's papers and notebooks
sample page from the second notebook
ramanujan on fried eye
clark, alex. "163 and ramanujan constant". numberphile. brady haran.

vikram ambalal sarabhai (12 august 1919   30 december 1971) was an indian scientist and innovator widely regarded as the father of india's space programme.
sarabhai received the shanti swarup bhatnagar medal in 1962. the nation honoured him awarding padma bhushan in 1966 and padma vibhushan (posthumously) in 1972.


== personal lifeedit ==
he married the celebrated classical dancer mrinalini in 1942. the couple had two children. his daughter mallika and son karthikeya too became famous personalities in their own rights. 
spouse: mrunalini sarabhai (     :                ), famous classical dancer, she is sister of india's freedom fighter and revolutionary dr laxmi sahgal.
daughter: mallika sarabhai, (film and theater artist, classical dancer, leading social activist, owner of popular art academy "darpan" (     :      )


== physical research laboratoryedit ==
known as the cradle of space sciences in india, the physical research laboratory (prl) was founded on 11 november 1947 by vikram sarabhai. prl had a modest beginning at his residence, the retreat, with research on cosmic rays.
the institute was formally established at the m.g. science institute, ahmedabad, with support from the karmkshetra educational foundation and the ahmedabad education society. prof. kalpathi ramakrishna ramanathan was the first director of the institute. the initial focus was research on cosmic rays and the properties of the upper atmosphere. research areas were expanded to include theoretical physics and radio physics later with grants from the atomic energy commission.
today prl is actively involved in research, related to five major fields of science. prl is also instrumental in the planex planetary science and exploration programme.
looking at the needs of the country, he persuaded charitable trusts controlled by his family and friends to endow a research institution near his home in ahmedabad. this led to the creation of the physical research laboratory in ahmedabad on november 11, 1947.


== vikram a sarabhai community science centreedit ==
vikram a. sarabhai community science centre (vascsc) established in the 1960s by the eminent space scientist, vikram a. sarabhai is working towards popularizing science and mathematics education among students, teachers and the laypublic. its mandate is to stimulate interest, encourage and expose the principles of science and scientific method and also to improve and find innovative methods of science education.


== indian space research organizationedit ==
sarabhai was convinced and envisioned that the resources in space have the potential to address the real problems of man and society. as director, physical research laboratory (prl) located in ahmedabad, sarabhai convened an army of able and brilliant scientists, anthropologists, communicators and social scientists from all corners of the country to spearhead the indian space programme.


== darpan academy for performing arts, ahmedabadedit ==
darpana was established as a dance academy by mrinalini and vikram sarabhai in 1949. for nearly two decades it taught classical dance. with mrinalini as the lead dancer, and chatunnipanicker as her partner, the darpana dance company toured across the world. a few years later the great kuchipudi guru, c r acharyelu joined the faculty.


== indian institute of management (iim), ahmedabadedit ==
the decade following independence in 1947 was witness to a surge of innovative ideas to build a fledgling independent nation into a model democratic state committed to growth with equity in the development of its people. the establishment of indian institute of management ahmedabad (iima) was the outcome of one such innovative initiative.
led by vikram sarabhai, shri. kasturbhai lalbhai and proactively supported by the then chief minister of gujarat, jivraj mehta, a group of enlightened individuals set up iima. this group ably wove together a coalition of five actors - the governments at the centre and the state, the local industrialists, the ford foundation and the harvard business school, in a true spirit of public private partnership to establish the institute.


== deathedit ==
he was visiting thiruvananthapuram to attend the foundation stone laying ceremony of the thumba railway station being built to service the newly created thumba equatorial rocket launching station.
sarabhai emphasized the importance of a space programme in his quote:
"there are some who question the relevance of space activities in a developing nation. to us, there is no ambiguity of purpose. we do not have the fantasy of competing with the economically advanced nations in the exploration of the moon or the planets or manned space-flight."
"but we are convinced that if we are to play a meaningful role nationally, and in the community of nations, we must be second to none in the application of advanced technologies to the real problems of man and society."
homi jehangir bhabha, widely regarded as the father of india's nuclear science program, supported sarabhai in setting up the first rocket launching station in india. this center was established at thumba near thiruvananthapuram on the coast of the arabian sea, primarily because of its proximity to the equator. after a remarkable effort in setting up the infrastructure, personnel, communication links, and launch pads, the inaugural flight was launched on november 21, 1963 with a sodium vapour payload. as a result, the first indian satellite, aryabhata, was put in orbit in 1975 from a russian cosmodrome.
he led the sarabhai family's diverse business conglomerate. his interests varied from science to sports to statistics. he set up operations research group (org), the first market research organization in the country. most notable among them are the nehru foundation for development in ahmedabad, indian institute of management ahmedabad (iima), which is considered a world class management institute. also, he helped establish the physical research laboratory (prl), which is doing a commendable job in r&d in physics. sarabhai set up ahmedabad textiles industrial research association (atira), which helped the booming textiles business in ahmedabad. he also set up the center for environmental planning and technology (cept). not stopping with all these, he went ahead and set up the blind men association (bma) which helps visually-challenged people with the necessary skills and support. along with his wife mrinalini sarabhai, he founded the darpana academy of performing arts. other well-known institutions established by him include the faster breeder test reactor (fbtr) in kalpakkam, variable energy cyclotron project in calcutta, electronics corporation of india limited (ecil) in hyderabad and uranium corporation of india limited (ucil) in jaduguda, jharkhand.


== distinguished positionsedit ==
president of the physics section, indian science congress (1962)
president of the general conference of the i.a.e.a., viennaa (1970)
vice-president, fourth u.n. conference on 'peaceful uses of atomic energy' (1971)


== legacyedit ==
the vikram sarabhai space centre, (vssc), which is the indian space research organization's lead facility for launch vehicle development located in thiruvananthapuram (trivandrum), capital of kerala state, is named in his memory.
along with other ahmedabad-based industrialists, he played a major role in setting up of the indian institute of management, ahmedabad.
in 1973, the international astronomical union decided that a lunar crater, bessel a, in the sea of serenity will be known as the sarabhai crater.


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
interview with biographer amrita shah recorded in august 2013
great scientists at freeindia.org
hindu newspaper

aryabhata (sanskrit:       ; iast:  ryabha a) or aryabhata i (476 550 ce) was the first of the major mathematician-astronomers from the classical age of indian mathematics and indian astronomy. his works include the  ryabha  ya (499 ce, when he was 23 years old) and the arya-siddhanta.


== biographyedit ==


=== nameedit ===
while there is a tendency to misspell his name as "aryabhatta" by analogy with other names having the "bhatta" suffix, his name is properly spelled aryabhata: every astronomical text spells his name thus, including brahmagupta's references to him "in more than a hundred places by name". furthermore, in most instances "aryabhatta" would not fit the metre either.


=== time and place of birthedit ===
aryabhata mentions in the aryabhatiya that it was composed 3,600 years into the kali yuga, when he was 23 years old. this corresponds to 499 ce, and implies that he was born in 476.
aryabhata provides no information about his place of birth. the only information comes from bh skara i, who describes aryabhata as   mak ya, "one belonging to the a maka country." during the buddha's time, a branch of the a maka people settled in the region between the narmada and godavari rivers in central india; aryabhata is believed to have been born there.


==== other hypothesesedit ====
it has been claimed that the a maka (sanskrit for "stone") where aryabhata originated may be the present day kodungallur which was the historical capital city of thiruvanchikkulam of ancient kerala. this is based on the belief that ko u  all r was earlier known as ko um-kal-l- r ("city of hard stones"); however, old records show that the city was actually ko um-kol- r ("city of strict governance"). similarly, the fact that several commentaries on the aryabhatiya have come from kerala has been used to suggest that it was aryabhata's main place of life and activity; however, many commentaries have come from outside kerala, and the aryasiddhanta was completely unknown in kerala. k. chandra hari has argued for the kerala hypothesis on the basis of astronomical evidence.
aryabhata mentions "lanka" on several occasions in the aryabhatiya, but his "lanka" is an abstraction, standing for a point on the equator at the same longitude as his ujjayini.


=== educationedit ===
it is fairly certain that, at some point, he went to kusumapura for advanced studies and lived there for some time. both hindu and buddhist tradition, as well as bh skara i (ce 629), identify kusumapura as p  aliputra, modern patna. a verse mentions that aryabhata was the head of an institution (kulapa) at kusumapura, and, because the university of nalanda was in pataliputra at the time and had an astronomical observatory, it is speculated that aryabhata might have been the head of the nalanda university as well. aryabhata is also reputed to have set up an observatory at the sun temple in taregana, bihar.


== worksedit ==
aryabhata is the author of several treatises on mathematics and astronomy, some of which are lost.
his major work, aryabhatiya, a compendium of mathematics and astronomy, was extensively referred to in the indian mathematical literature and has survived to modern times. the mathematical part of the aryabhatiya covers arithmetic, algebra, plane trigonometry, and spherical trigonometry. it also contains continued fractions, quadratic equations, sums-of-power series, and a table of sines.
the arya-siddhanta, a lost work on astronomical computations, is known through the writings of aryabhata's contemporary, varahamihira, and later mathematicians and commentators, including brahmagupta and bhaskara i. this work appears to be based on the older surya siddhanta and uses the midnight-day reckoning, as opposed to sunrise in aryabhatiya. it also contained a description of several astronomical instruments: the gnomon (shanku-yantra), a shadow instrument (chhaya-yantra), possibly angle-measuring devices, semicircular and circular (dhanur-yantra / chakra-yantra), a cylindrical stick yasti-yantra, an umbrella-shaped device called the chhatra-yantra, and water clocks of at least two types, bow-shaped and cylindrical.
a third text, which may have survived in the arabic translation, is al ntf or al-nanf. it claims that it is a translation by aryabhata, but the sanskrit name of this work is not known.
probably dating from the 9th century, it is mentioned by the persian scholar and chronicler of india, ab  rayh n al-b r n .


=== aryabhatiyaedit ===

direct details of aryabhata's work are known only from the aryabhatiya. the name "aryabhatiya" is due to later commentators. aryabhata himself may not have given it a name. his disciple bhaskara i calls it ashmakatantra (or the treatise from the ashmaka). it is also occasionally referred to as arya-shatas-ashta (literally, aryabhata's 108), because there are 108 verses in the text. it is written in the very terse style typical of sutra literature, in which each line is an aid to memory for a complex system. thus, the explication of meaning is due to commentators. the text consists of the 108 verses and 13 introductory verses, and is divided into four p das or chapters:
gitikapada: (13 verses): large units of time kalpa, manvantra, and yuga which present a cosmology different from earlier texts such as lagadha's vedanga jyotisha (c. 1st century bce). there is also a table of sines (jya), given in a single verse. the duration of the planetary revolutions during a mahayuga is given as 4.32 million years.
ganitapada (33 verses): covering mensuration (k etra vy vah ra), arithmetic and geometric progressions, gnomon / shadows (shanku-chhaya), simple, quadratic, simultaneous, and indeterminate equations (ku  aka).
kalakriyapada (25 verses): different units of time and a method for determining the positions of planets for a given day, calculations concerning the intercalary month (adhikamasa), kshaya-tithis, and a seven-day week with names for the days of week.
golapada (50 verses): geometric/trigonometric aspects of the celestial sphere, features of the ecliptic, celestial equator, node, shape of the earth, cause of day and night, rising of zodiacal signs on horizon, etc. in addition, some versions cite a few colophons added at the end, extolling the virtues of the work, etc.
the aryabhatiya presented a number of innovations in mathematics and astronomy in verse form, which were influential for many centuries. the extreme brevity of the text was elaborated in commentaries by his disciple bhaskara i (bhashya, c. 600 ce) and by nilakantha somayaji in his aryabhatiya bhasya, (1465 ce).


== mathematicsedit ==


=== place value system and zeroedit ===
the place-value system, first seen in the 3rd-century bakhshali manuscript, was clearly in place in his work. while he did not use a symbol for zero, the french mathematician georges ifrah argues that knowledge of zero was implicit in aryabhata's place-value system as a place holder for the powers of ten with null coefficients.
however, aryabhata did not use the brahmi numerals. continuing the sanskritic tradition from vedic times, he used letters of the alphabet to denote numbers, expressing quantities, such as the table of sines in a mnemonic form.


=== approximation of  edit ===
aryabhata worked on the approximation for pi (), and may have come to the conclusion that  is irrational. in the second part of the aryabhatiyam (ga itap da 10), he writes:

caturadhikam  atama  agu am dv  a  istath  sahasr   m ayutadvayavi kambhasy sanno v ttapari  ha . "add four to 100, multiply by eight, and then add 62,000. by this rule the circumference of a circle with a diameter of 20,000 can be approached."

this implies that the ratio of the circumference to the diameter is ((4 + 100)   8 + 62000)/20000 = 62832/20000 = 3.1416, which is accurate to five significant figures.
it is speculated that aryabhata used the word  sanna (approaching), to mean that not only is this an approximation but that the value is incommensurable (or irrational). if this is correct, it is quite a sophisticated insight, because the irrationality of pi was proved in europe only in 1761 by lambert.
after aryabhatiya was translated into arabic (c. 820 ce) this approximation was mentioned in al-khwarizmi's book on algebra.


=== trigonometryedit ===
in ganitapada 6, aryabhata gives the area of a triangle as
tribhujasya phalashariram samadalakoti bhujardhasamvargah
that translates to: "for a triangle, the result of a perpendicular with the half-side is the area."
aryabhata discussed the concept of sine in his work by the name of ardha-jya, which literally means "half-chord". for simplicity, people started calling it jya. when arabic writers translated his works from sanskrit into arabic, they referred it as jiba. however, in arabic writings, vowels are omitted, and it was abbreviated as jb. later writers substituted it with jaib, meaning "pocket" or "fold (in a garment)". (in arabic, jiba is a meaningless word.) later in the 12th century, when gherardo of cremona translated these writings from arabic into latin, he replaced the arabic jaib with its latin counterpart, sinus, which means "cove" or "bay"; thence comes the english word sine.


=== indeterminate equationsedit ===
a problem of great interest to indian mathematicians since ancient times has been to find integer solutions to diophantine equations that have the form ax + by = c. (this problem was also studied in ancient chinese mathematics, and its solution is usually referred to as the chinese remainder theorem.) this is an example from bh skara's commentary on aryabhatiya:
find the number which gives 5 as the remainder when divided by 8, 4 as the remainder when divided by 9, and 1 as the remainder when divided by 7
that is, find n = 8x+5 = 9y+4 = 7z+1. it turns out that the smallest value for n is 85. in general, diophantine equations, such as this, can be notoriously difficult. they were discussed extensively in ancient vedic text sulba sutras, whose more ancient parts might date to 800 bce. aryabhata's method of solving such problems, elaborated by bhaskara in 621 ce, is called the ku  aka (      ) method. kuttaka means "pulverizing" or "breaking into small pieces", and the method involves a recursive algorithm for writing the original factors in smaller numbers. this algorithm became the standard method for solving first-order diophantine equations in indian mathematics, and initially the whole subject of algebra was called ku  aka-ga ita or simply ku  aka.


=== algebraedit ===
in aryabhatiya, aryabhata provided elegant results for the summation of series of squares and cubes:

and
 (see squared triangular number)


== astronomyedit ==
aryabhata's system of astronomy was called the audayaka system, in which days are reckoned from uday, dawn at lanka or "equator". some of his later writings on astronomy, which apparently proposed a second model (or ardha-ratrika, midnight) are lost but can be partly reconstructed from the discussion in brahmagupta's khandakhadyaka. in some texts, he seems to ascribe the apparent motions of the heavens to the earth's rotation. he may have believed that the planet's orbits as elliptical rather than circular.


=== motions of the solar systemedit ===
aryabhata correctly insisted that the earth rotates about its axis daily, and that the apparent movement of the stars is a relative motion caused by the rotation of the earth, contrary to the then-prevailing view, that the sky rotated. this is indicated in the first chapter of the aryabhatiya, where he gives the number of rotations of the earth in a yuga, and made more explicit in his gola chapter:

in the same way that someone in a boat going forward sees an unmoving [object] going backward, so [someone] on the equator sees the unmoving stars going uniformly westward. the cause of rising and setting [is that] the sphere of the stars together with the planets [apparently?] turns due west at the equator, constantly pushed by the cosmic wind.

aryabhata described a geocentric model of the solar system, in which the sun and moon are each carried by epicycles. they in turn revolve around the earth. in this model, which is also found in the pait mahasiddh nta (c. ce 425), the motions of the planets are each governed by two epicycles, a smaller manda (slow) and a larger   ghra (fast).  the order of the planets in terms of distance from earth is taken as: the moon, mercury, venus, the sun, mars, jupiter, saturn, and the asterisms."
the positions and periods of the planets was calculated relative to uniformly moving points. in the case of mercury and venus, they move around the earth at the same mean speed as the sun. in the case of mars, jupiter, and saturn, they move around the earth at specific speeds, representing each planet's motion through the zodiac. most historians of astronomy consider that this two-epicycle model reflects elements of pre-ptolemaic greek astronomy. another element in aryabhata's model, the   ghrocca, the basic planetary period in relation to the sun, is seen by some historians as a sign of an underlying heliocentric model.


=== eclipsesedit ===
solar and lunar eclipses were scientifically explained by aryabhata. he states that the moon and planets shine by reflected sunlight. instead of the prevailing cosmogony in which eclipses were caused by rahu and ketu (identified as the pseudo-planetary lunar nodes), he explains eclipses in terms of shadows cast by and falling on earth. thus, the lunar eclipse occurs when the moon enters into the earth's shadow (verse gola.37). he discusses at length the size and extent of the earth's shadow (verses gola.38 48) and then provides the computation and the size of the eclipsed part during an eclipse. later indian astronomers improved on the calculations, but aryabhata's methods provided the core. his computational paradigm was so accurate that 18th-century scientist guillaume le gentil, during a visit to pondicherry, india, found the indian computations of the duration of the lunar eclipse of 30 august 1765 to be short by 41 seconds, whereas his charts (by tobias mayer, 1752) were long by 68 seconds.


=== sidereal periodsedit ===
considered in modern english units of time, aryabhata calculated the sidereal rotation (the rotation of the earth referencing the fixed stars) as 23 hours, 56 minutes, and 4.1 seconds; the modern value is 23:56:4.091. similarly, his value for the length of the sidereal year at 365 days, 6 hours, 12 minutes, and 30 seconds (365.25858 days) is an error of 3 minutes and 20 seconds over the length of a year (365.25636 days).


=== heliocentrismedit ===
as mentioned, aryabhata advocated an astronomical model in which the earth turns on its own axis. his model also gave corrections (the   gra anomaly) for the speeds of the planets in the sky in terms of the mean speed of the sun. thus, it has been suggested that aryabhata's calculations were based on an underlying heliocentric model, in which the planets orbit the sun, though this has been rebutted. it has also been suggested that aspects of aryabhata's system may have been derived from an earlier, likely pre-ptolemaic greek, heliocentric model of which indian astronomers were unaware, though the evidence is scant. the general consensus is that a synodic anomaly (depending on the position of the sun) does not imply a physically heliocentric orbit (such corrections being also present in late babylonian astronomical texts), and that aryabhata's system was not explicitly heliocentric.


== legacyedit ==

aryabhata's work was of great influence in the indian astronomical tradition and influenced several neighbouring cultures through translations. the arabic translation during the islamic golden age (c. 820 ce), was particularly influential. some of his results are cited by al-khwarizmi and in the 10th century al-biruni stated that aryabhata's followers believed that the earth rotated on its axis.
his definitions of sine (jya), cosine (kojya), versine (utkrama-jya), and inverse sine (otkram jya) influenced the birth of trigonometry. he was also the first to specify sine and versine (1   cos x) tables, in 3.75  intervals from 0  to 90 , to an accuracy of 4 decimal places.
in fact, modern names "sine" and "cosine" are mistranscriptions of the words jya and kojya as introduced by aryabhata. as mentioned, they were translated as jiba and kojiba in arabic and then misunderstood by gerard of cremona while translating an arabic geometry text to latin. he assumed that jiba was the arabic word jaib, which means "fold in a garment", l. sinus (c. 1150).
aryabhata's astronomical calculation methods were also very influential. along with the trigonometric tables, they came to be widely used in the islamic world and used to compute many arabic astronomical tables (zijes). in particular, the astronomical tables in the work of the arabic spain scientist al-zarqali (11th century) were translated into latin as the tables of toledo (12th century) and remained the most accurate ephemeris used in europe for centuries.
calendric calculations devised by aryabhata and his followers have been in continuous use in india for the practical purposes of fixing the panchangam (the hindu calendar). in the islamic world, they formed the basis of the jalali calendar introduced in 1073 ce by a group of astronomers including omar khayyam, versions of which (modified in 1925) are the national calendars in use in iran and afghanistan today. the dates of the jalali calendar are based on actual solar transit, as in aryabhata and earlier siddhanta calendars. this type of calendar requires an ephemeris for calculating dates. although dates were difficult to compute, seasonal errors were less in the jalali calendar than in the gregorian calendar.
aryabhatta knowledge university (aku), patna has been established by government of bihar for the development and management of educational infrastructure related to technical, medical, management and allied professional education in his honour. the university is governed by bihar state university act 2008.
india's first satellite aryabhata and the lunar crater aryabhata are named in his honour. an institute for conducting research in astronomy, astrophysics and atmospheric sciences is the aryabhatta research institute of observational sciences (aries) near nainital, india. the inter-school aryabhata maths competition is also named after him, as is bacillus aryabhata, a species of bacteria discovered in the stratosphere by isro scientists in 2009.


== see alsoedit ==
 ryabha a numeration
 ryabha a's sine table
indian mathematics
list of indian mathematicians


== referencesedit ==

cooke, roger (1997). the history of mathematics: a brief course. wiley-interscience. isbn 0-471-18082-3. 
clark, walter eugene (1930). the  ryabha  ya of  ryabha a: an ancient indian work on mathematics and astronomy. university of chicago press; reprint: kessinger publishing (2006). isbn 978-1-4254-8599-3. 
kak, subhash c. (2000). 'birth and early development of indian astronomy'. in selin, helaine, ed. (2000). astronomy across cultures: the history of non-western astronomy. boston: kluwer. isbn 0-7923-6363-9. 
shukla, kripa shankar. aryabhata: indian mathematician and astronomer. new delhi: indian national science academy, 1976.
thurston, h. (1994). "early astronomy". springer-verlag, new york. isbn 0-387-94107-x. 


== external linksedit ==
1930 english translation of the aryabhatiya in various formats at the internet archive.
o'connor, john j.; robertson, edmund f., "aryabhata", mactutor history of mathematics archive, university of st andrews .
achar, narahari (2007). " ryabha a i". in thomas hockey; et al. the biographical encyclopedia of astronomers. new york: springer. p. 63. isbn 978-0-387-31022-0.  (pdf version)
aryabhata and diophantus' son, hindustan times storytelling science column, nov 2004
surya siddhanta translations

sachin ramesh tendulkar (/ s t  n t n du lk r/; born 24 april 1973) is a former indian cricketer and captain, widely regarded to be one of the greatest cricketers of all time and by many as the greatest batsman of all time. he took up cricket at the age of eleven, made his test debut on 15 november 1989 against pakistan in karachi at the age of sixteen, and went on to represent mumbai domestically and india internationally for close to twenty-four years. he is the only player to have scored one hundred international centuries, the first batsman to score a double century in a one day international, holds the record for most number of runs in both odi and test cricket, the only player to complete more than 30,000 runs in international cricket.
in 2002 just half way through his career, wisden cricketers' almanack ranked him the second greatest test batsman of all time, behind don bradman, and the second greatest odi batsman of all time, behind viv richards. later in his career, tendulkar was a part of the indian team that won the 2011 world cup, his first win in six world cup appearances for india. he had previously been named "player of the tournament" at the 2003 edition of the tournament, held in south africa. in 2013, he was the only indian cricketer included in an all-time test world xi named to mark the 150th anniversary of wisden cricketers' almanack.
tendulkar received the arjuna award in 1994 for his outstanding sporting achievement, the rajiv gandhi khel ratna award in 1997, india's highest sporting honour, and the padma shri and padma vibhushan awards in 1999 and 2008, respectively, india's fourth and second highest civilian awards. after a few hours of his final match on 16 november 2013, the prime minister's office announced the decision to award him the bharat ratna, india's highest civilian award. he is the youngest recipient to date and the first ever sportsperson to receive the award. he also won the 2010 sir garfield sobers trophy for cricketer of the year at the icc awards. in 2012, tendulkar was nominated to the rajya sabha, the upper house of the parliament of india. he was also the first sportsperson and the first person without an aviation background to be awarded the honorary rank of group captain by the indian air force. in 2012, he was named an honorary member of the order of australia.
in december 2012, tendulkar announced his retirement from odis. he retired from twenty20 cricket in october 2013 and subsequently announced his retirement from all forms of cricket, retiring on 16 november 2013 after playing his 200th and final test match, against the west indies in mumbai's wankhede stadium. tendulkar played 664 international cricket matches in total, scoring 34,357 runs.


== early yearsedit ==
tendulkar was born at nirmal nursing home on 24 april 1973 in a maharashtrian family. his father, ramesh tendulkar, was a well-known marathi novelist and his mother, rajni, worked in the insurance industry. ramesh named tendulkar after his favourite music director, sachin dev burman. tendulkar has three elder siblings: two half-brothers nitin and ajit, and a half-sister savita. they were ramesh's children from his first marriage. he spent his formative years in the sahitya sahawas cooperative housing society, bandra (east). as a young boy, tendulkar was considered a bully, and often picked up fights with new children in his school. he also showed an interest in tennis, idolising john mcenroe. to help curb his mischievous and bullying tendencies, ajit introduced him to cricket in 1984. he introduced the young sachin to ramakant achrekar, a famous cricket coach and a club cricketer of repute, at shivaji park, dadar. in the first meeting, the young sachin did not play his best. ajit told achrekar that he was feeling self-conscious due to the coach observing him, and was not displaying his natural game. ajit requested the coach to give him another chance at playing, but watch while hiding behind a tree. this time, sachin, apparently unobserved, played much better and was accepted at achrekar's academy. ajit is ten years elder and is credited by sachin for playing a pivotal role in his life.
achrekar was impressed with tendulkar's talent and advised him to shift his schooling to sharadashram vidyamandir (english) high school, a school at dadar which had a dominant cricket team and had produced many notable cricketers. prior to this, tendulkar had attended the indian education society's new english school in bandra (east). he was also coached under the guidance of achrekar at shivaji park in the mornings and evenings. tendulkar would practice for hours on end in the nets. if he became exhausted, achrekar would put a one-rupee coin on the top of the stumps, and the bowler who dismissed tendulkar would get the coin. if tendulkar passed the whole session without getting dismissed, the coach would give him the coin. tendulkar now considers the 13 coins he won then as some of his most prized possessions. he moved in with his aunt and uncle, who lived near shivaji park, during this period, due to his hectic schedule.

meanwhile, at school, he developed a reputation as a child prodigy. he had become a common conversation point in local cricketing circles, where there were suggestions already that he would become one of the greats. sachin consistently featured in his school shardashram vidyamandir (english) team in the matunga gujarati seva mandal (popularly coined mgsm) shield. besides school cricket, he also played club cricket, initially representing john bright cricket club in mumbai's premier club cricket tournament, the kanga league, and later went on to play for the cricket club of india. in 1987, at the age of 14, he attended the mrf pace foundation in madras (now chennai) to train as a fast bowler, but australian fast bowler dennis lillee, who took a world record 355 test wickets, was unimpressed, suggesting that tendulkar focus on his batting instead. on 20 january 1987, he also turned out as substitute for imran khan's side in an exhibition game at brabourne stadium in mumbai, to mark the golden jubilee of cricket club of india. a couple of months later, former indian batsman sunil gavaskar gave him a pair of his own ultra light pads and consoled him to not get disheartened for not getting the mumbai cricket association's "best junior cricket award" (he was 14 years that time). "it was the greatest source of encouragement for me," tendulkar said nearly 20 years later after surpassing gavaskar's world record of 34 test centuries. sachin served as a ball boy in the 1987 cricket world cup when india played against england in the semifinal in mumbai. in his season in 1988, tendulkar scored a century in every innings he played. he was involved in an unbroken 664-run partnership in a lord harris shield inter-school game against st. xavier's high school in 1988 with his friend and team-mate vinod kambli, who would also go on to represent india. the destructive pair reduced one bowler to tears and made the rest of the opposition unwilling to continue the game. tendulkar scored 326 (not out) in this innings and scored over a thousand runs in the tournament. this was a record partnership in any form of cricket until 2006, when it was broken by two under-13 batsmen in a match held at hyderabad in india.


== early domestic careeredit ==
on 14 november 1987, tendulkar was selected to represent mumbai in the ranji trophy, india's premier domestic first-class cricket tournament, for the 1987 88 season. however, he was not selected for the final eleven in any of the matches, though he was often used as a substitute fielder. he narrowly missed out on playing alongside his idol gavaskar, who had retired from all forms of cricket after the 1987 cricket world cup. a year later, on 11 december 1988, aged just 15 years and 232 days, tendulkar made his debut for mumbai against gujarat at home and scored 100 not out in that match, making him the youngest indian to score a century on debut in first-class cricket. he was handpicked to play for the team by the then mumbai captain dilip vengsarkar after watching him easily negotiating india's best fast bowler at the time, kapil dev, in the wankhede stadium nets, where the indian team had come to play against the touring new zealand team. he followed this by scoring a century in his first deodhar and duleep trophies, which are also indian domestic tournaments.
tendulkar finished the 1988 89 season as mumbai's highest run-scorer. he scored 583 runs at an average of 67.77, and was the sixth highest run-scorer overall he also made an unbeaten century in the irani trophy match against delhi at the start of the 1989 90 season, playing for the rest of india. sachin was picked for a young indian team to tour england twice, under the star cricket club banner in 1988 and 1989. in the famous 1990 91 ranji trophy final, in which haryana defeated mumbai by two runs after leading in the first innings, tendulkar's 96 from 75 deliveries was a key to giving mumbai a chance of victory as it attempted to chase 355 from only 70 overs on the final day.
his first double century (204*) was for mumbai while playing against the visiting australian team at the brabourne stadium in 1998. he is the only player to score a century on debut in all three of his domestic first-class tournaments (the ranji, irani, and duleep trophies). another double century was an innings of 233* against tamil nadu in the semi-finals of the 2000 ranji trophy, which he regards as one of the best innings of his career.


=== yorkshireedit ===
in 1992, at the age of 19, tendulkar became the first overseas-born player to represent yorkshire, which prior to tendulkar joining the team, never selected players even from other english counties. selected for yorkshire as a replacement for the injured australian fast bowler craig mcdermott, tendulkar played 16 first-class matches for the county and scored 1070 runs at an average of 46.52.


== international careeredit ==


=== early careeredit ===
raj singh dungarpur is credited for the selection of tendulkar for the indian tour of pakistan in late 1989, and that too after just one first class season. the indian selection committee had shown interest in selecting tendulkar for the tour of the west indies held earlier that year, but eventually did not select him, as they did not want him to be exposed to the dominant fast bowlers of the west indies so early in his career. tendulkar made his test debut against pakistan in karachi in november 1989 aged just 16 years and 205 days. he made just 15 runs, being bowled by waqar younis, who also made his debut in that match, but was noted for how he handled numerous blows to his body at the hands of the pakistani pace attack. in the fourth and final test in sialkot, he was hit on the nose by a bouncer bowled by younis, but he declined medical assistance and continued to bat even as he gushed blood from it. in a 20-over exhibition game in peshawar, held in parallel with the bilateral series, tendulkar made 53 runs off 18 balls, including an over in which he scored 27 runs (6, 4, 0, 6, 6, 6) off leg-spinner abdul qadir. this was later called "one of the best innings i have seen" by the then indian captain krishnamachari srikkanth. in all, he scored 215 runs at an average of 35.83 in the test series, and was dismissed without scoring a run in the only one day international (odi) he played. thus sachin tendulkar became the youngest player to debut for india in tests at the age of 16 years and 205 days and also the youngest player to debut for india in odis at the age of 16 years and 238 days.
the series was followed by a tour of new zealand in which he scored 117 runs at an average of 29.25 in tests including an innings of 88 in the second test. he was dismissed without scoring in one of the two one-day games he played, and scored 36 in the other. on his next tour, to england in july august 1990, he became the second youngest cricketer to score a test century as he made 119 not out in the second test at old trafford in manchester. wisden described his innings as "a disciplined display of immense maturity" and also wrote:

he looked the embodiment of india's famous opener, gavaskar, and indeed was wearing a pair of his pads. while he displayed a full repertoire of strokes in compiling his maiden test hundred, most remarkable were his off-side shots from the back foot. though only 5ft 5in tall, he was still able to control without difficulty short deliveries from the english pacemen.

tendulkar further enhanced his reputation as a future great during the 1991 92 tour of australia held before the 1992 cricket world cup, that included an unbeaten 148 in the third test at sydney and 114 on a fast, bouncing pitch in the final test at perth against a pace attack comprising merv hughes, bruce reid and craig mcdermott. hughes commented to allan border at the time that "this little prick's going to get more runs than you, ab."


=== rise through the ranksedit ===
tendulkar's performance through the years 1994 1999 coincided with his physical peak, in his early twenties. on the day of the hindu festival holi, tendulkar was told to open the batting at auckland against new zealand in 1994. he went on to make 82 runs off 49 balls. he scored his first odi century on 9 september 1994 against australia in sri lanka at colombo. it took him 79 odis to score his first century.

tendulkar's rise continued when he was the leading run scorer at the 1996 world cup, scoring two centuries. he was the only indian batsman to perform in the semi-final against sri lanka. tendulkar fell amid a batting collapse and the match referee, clive lloyd awarded sri lanka the match after the crowd began rioting and throwing litter onto the field.
after the world cup, in the same year against pakistan at sharjah, indian captain mohammed azharuddin was going through a lean patch. tendulkar and navjot singh sidhu both made centuries to set a then record partnership for the second wicket. after getting out, tendulkar found azharuddin in two minds about whether he should bat. tendulkar convinced azharuddin to bat and azharuddin subsequently unleashed 24 runs off just one over. india went on to win that match. it enabled india to post a score in excess of 300 runs for the first time in an odi.
this was the beginning of a period at the top of the batting world, culminating in the australian tour of india in early 1998, with tendulkar scoring three consecutive centuries. the focus was on the clash between sachin tendulkar, the world's most dominating batsman and shane warne, and the world's leading spinner, both at the peak of their careers, clashing in a full-fledged test series after 7 long years. in the lead-up to the series, tendulkar famously simulated scenarios in the nets with laxman sivaramakrishnan, the former india leg spinner, donning the role of warne. in their tour opener, australia faced the then ranji champions mumbai at the brabourne stadium in a three-day first class match. tendulkar made an unbeaten 204 as shane warne conceded 111 runs in 16 overs and australia lost the match within three days. these were characterised by a premeditated plan to target australian spinners shane warne and gavin robertson, to whom he regularly charged down the pitch to drive over the infield. this technique worked as india beat australia in the ensuing test series as well. he also had a role with the ball in the five-match odi series in india following the tests, including a five wicket haul in an odi in kochi. set 310 runs to win, australia were cruising at 203 for 3 in the 31st over when tendulkar turned the match for india, taking the wickets of michael bevan, steve waugh, darren lehmann, tom moody and damien martyn for just 32 runs in 10 overs. the test match success was followed by two consecutive centuries in april 1998 in a triangular cricket tournament in sharjah   the first in a must-win game to take india to the finals and then again in the finals, both against australia tormenting shane warne once again. these twin knocks were also known as the desert storm innings. the innings in the finals was incidentally played on his 25th birthday. following the series warne ruefully joked that he was having nightmares about his indian nemesis.
tendulkar single-handedly won the icc 1998 quarterfinal at dhaka to pave way for india's entry into the semifinals, when he took four australian wickets after scoring 141 runs in just 128 balls.
the inaugural asian test championship took place in february and march 1999. held just twice, the 1999 championship was contested by india, pakistan, and sri lanka. the first test match between india and pakistan in eden gardens was previously scheduled as the third test match of the tournament but later on was shifted to the first match. in the first match, tendulkar was run out for nine after colliding with pakistan bowler shoaib akhtar. around 100,000 people came to support team india during the initial four days of the tournament. the aggregate test attendance record which was made 63 years ago was broken during this test. the crowd's reaction to the dismissal was to throw objects at akhtar, and the players were taken off the field. the match resumed after tendulkar and the president of the icc appealed to the crowd, however further rioting meant that the match was finished in front of a crowd of just 200 people. tendulkar scored his 19th test century in the second test and the match resulted in a draw with sri lanka. india did not progress to the final, which was won by pakistan, and refused to participate the next time the championship was held due to increasing political tensions between india and pakistan.
in the historic test against pakistan at chepauk in 1999, the first of a two-test series, sachin scored 136 in the fourth innings with india chasing 271 for victory. however, he was out when india needed 17 more runs to win, triggering a batting collapse, and india lost the match by 12 runs. the worst was yet to come as professor ramesh tendulkar, sachin's father, died in the middle of the 1999 cricket world cup. tendulkar flew back to india to attend the final rituals of his father, missing the match against zimbabwe. however, he returned to the world cup scoring a century (140 not out off 101 balls) in his very next match against kenya in bristol. he dedicated this century to his father.


=== captaincyedit ===
tendulkar's two tenures as captain of the indian cricket team were not very successful. when tendulkar took over as captain in 1996, it was with huge hopes and expectations. however, by 1997 the team was performing poorly. azharuddin was credited with saying "nahin jeetega! chote ki naseeb main jeet nahin hai!", which translates into: "he won't win! it's not in the small one's destiny!".
tendulkar, succeeding azharuddin as captain for his second term, led india on a tour of australia, where the visitors were beaten 3 0 by the newly crowned world champions. tendulkar, however, won the player of the series award as well as player of the match in one of the games. after another test series defeat, this time by a 0 2 margin at home against south africa, tendulkar resigned, and sourav ganguly took over as captain in 2000.
tendulkar remained an integral part of the indian team's strategic processes. he was often seen in discussion with the captain, at times actively involved in building strategies. former captain rahul dravid publicly acknowledged that tendulkar had been suggesting moves such as the promotion of irfan pathan up the batting order which, although only temporary, had an immediate effect on the team's fortunes. in 2007, tendulkar was appointed vice-captain to captain rahul dravid. during the indian team's 2007 tour of england, dravid's desire to resign from the captaincy became known. the bcci president sharad pawar personally offered the captaincy to tendulkar. however, tendulkar asked pawar not to appoint him captain, instead recommending mahendra singh dhoni to take over the reins. pawar later revealed this conversation, crediting tendulkar for first forwarding the name of dhoni, who since achieved much success as captain.


=== mike denness incidentedit ===

in india's 2001 tour of south africa in the second test match between india and south africa at st george's park, port elizabeth match referee mike denness fined four indian players for excessive appealing as well as the indian captain sourav ganguly for not controlling his team. tendulkar was given a suspended ban of one game by denness in light of alleged ball tampering. television cameras picked up images that suggested tendulkar may have been involved in cleaning the seam of the cricket ball. this can, under some conditions, amount to altering the condition of the ball. denness found sachin tendulkar guilty of ball tampering charges and handed him a one test match ban. the incident escalated to include allegations of racism, and led to denness being barred from entering the venue of the third test match. the icc revoked the status of the match as a test as the teams rejected the appointed referee. the charges against tendulkar and sehwag's ban for excessive appealing triggered a massive backlash from the indian public.


=== injuries and decline amid surpassing bradman's hauledit ===
sachin tendulkar continued performing well in test cricket in 2001 and 2002, with some pivotal performances with both bat and ball. tendulkar took three wickets on the final day of the famous kolkata test against australia in 2001. tendulkar took the key wickets of matthew hayden and adam gilchrist, who were centurions in the previous test. in the five-match odi series that followed, he took his 100th wicket in odis, claiming the wicket of then australian captain steve waugh in the final match at the fatorda stadium in goa.
in the 2002 series in the west indies, tendulkar started well, scoring 79 in the first test. in the second test at port of spain, sachin tendulkar scored 117 in the first innings, his 29th test century in his 93rd test match, to equal sir donald bradman's record of 29 test hundreds. then, in a hitherto unprecedented sequence, he scored 0, 0, 8 and 0 in the next four innings, getting out to technical "defects" and uncharacteristically poor strokes. he returned to form in the last test scoring 41 and 86. however, india lost the series. this might have been the beginning of the "decline" phase in his career which lasted till 2006. in the third test match against england in august 2002, sachin scored his 30th test century to surpass bradman's haul, in his 99th test match.
tendulkar made 673 runs in 11 matches in the 2003 cricket world cup, helping india reach the final. while australia retained the trophy that they had won in 1999, tendulkar was given the man of the tournament award.
he continued to score heavily in odi cricket that year, with two hundreds in a tri-series involving new zealand and australia. as a part-time bowler, he dismissed an exhausted centurion, matthew hayden in the tri-series final.
the drawn series as india toured australia in 2003 04 saw tendulkar making his mark in the last test of the series, with 241 not out in sydney, putting india in a virtually unbeatable position. he followed up the innings with an unbeaten 60 in the second innings of the test. prior to this test match, he had had an unusually horrible run of form, failing in all six innings in the preceding three tests. it was no aberration that 2003 was his worst year in test cricket, with an average of 17.25 and just one fifty.
tendulkar scored an unbeaten 194 against pakistan at multan in the following series. india declared before tendulkar reached 200; had he done so it would have been the fourth time he passed the landmark in tests. in meeting with the press that evening, tendulkar stated that he was disappointed and that the declaration had taken him by surprise. many former cricketers commented that dravid's declaration was in bad taste. after india won the match, the captain rahul dravid stated that the matter was spoken internally and put to rest.
a tennis elbow injury then took its toll on tendulkar, leaving him out of the side for most of the year, coming back only for the last two tests when australia toured india in 2004. he played a part in india's victory in mumbai in that series with a fast 55, though australia took the series 2 1.
on 10 december 2005 at feroz shah kotla, tendulkar scored his record-breaking 35th test century, against the sri lankans. after this, tendulkar endured the longest spell of his career without a test century: 17 innings elapsed before he scored 101 against bangladesh in may 2007. tendulkar scored his 39th odi hundred on 6 february 2006 in a match against pakistan. he followed with a 42 in the second one-day international against pakistan on 11 february 2006, and then a 95 in hostile, seaming conditions on 13 february 2006 in lahore, which set up an indian victory. on 19 march 2006, after being dismissed for only one run against england in the first innings of the third test in his home ground, wankhede, tendulkar was booed off the ground by a section of the crowd, the first time that he had ever faced such flak. tendulkar was to end the three-test series without a single half-century to his credit, and news of a shoulder operation raised more questions about his longevity. in july 2006, the board of control for cricket in india (bcci) announced that tendulkar had overcome his injury problem following an operation and rehabilitation programme and was available for selection, and he was eventually selected for the next series.
tendulkar's comeback came in the dlf cup in malaysia and he was the only indian batsman to shine. in his comeback match, against west indies on 14 september 2006, tendulkar responded to his critics who believed that his career was inexorably sliding with his 40th odi century. though he scored 141 not out, west indies won the rain-affected match by the d/l method.
during the preparation for the 2007 world cup, tendulkar was criticised by greg chappell on his attitude. as per the report, chappell felt that tendulkar would be more useful down the order, while the latter felt that he would be better off opening the innings, the role he had played for most of his career. chappell also believed that tendulkar's repeated failures were hurting the team's chances. in a rare show of emotion, tendulkar hit out at the comments attributed to chappell by pointing out that no coach has ever suggested his attitude towards cricket is incorrect. on 7 april 2007, the board of control for cricket in india issued a notice to tendulkar asking for an explanation for his comments made to the media.
at the world cup in the west indies, tendulkar and the indian cricket team led by rahul dravid had a dismal campaign. tendulkar, who was pushed to bat lower down the order had scores of 7 against bangladesh, 57 not out against bermuda and 0 against sri lanka. as a result, former australian captain ian chappell, brother of the then indian coach greg, called for tendulkar to retire in his column for mumbai's mid day newspaper.


=== return to old form and consistencyedit ===

in the subsequent test series against bangladesh, tendulkar returned to his opening slot and was chosen as the man of the series. he continued by scoring 99 and 93 in the first two matches of the future cup against south africa. during the second match, he also became the first to score 15,000 runs in odis. he was the leading run scorer and was adjudged the man of the series.

on the second day of the nottingham test on 28 july 2007, tendulkar became the third cricketer to complete 11,000 test runs. in the subsequent one-day series against england, tendulkar was the leading run scorer from india with an average of 53.42. in the odi series against australia in october 2007 tendulkar was the leading indian run scorer with 278 runs.
tendulkar was dismissed seven times in 2007 between 90 and 100, including three times at 99, leading some to suggestions that he struggles to cope with nervousness in this phase of his innings. tendulkar has got out 27 times in the 90s during his international career. in a five-odi series against pakistan, he was caught by kamran akmal off the bowling of umar gul for 99 in the second match at mohali, and in the fourth match of that series, he got out in the 90s for a second time, scoring 97 before dragging a delivery from gul on to his stumps.


=== 2007 08 tour of australiaedit ===
in the border-gavaskar trophy, 2007 08, tendulkar showed exceptional form, becoming the leading run scorer with 493 runs in four tests, despite consistently failing in the second innings. sachin scored 62 runs in the first innings of the first test at the mcg in melbourne, but could not prevent a heavy 337-run win for australia. in the controversial new years' test at sydney, tendulkar scored an unbeaten 154, even though india lost the test. this was his third century at the scg and his 38th test century overall, earning him an average of 326 at the ground at the time of completing the innings. in the third test at the waca cricket ground in perth, sachin was instrumental in india's first innings score of 330, scoring a well-compiled 71. india went on to record a historic triumph at the waca, ending australia's run of 16 consecutive wins. in the fourth test at the adelaide oval, which ended in a draw, he scored 153 in the first innings, being involved in a crucial 126 run stand with v.v.s. laxman for the fifth wicket to lead india to a score of 282 for 5 from 156 for 4. he secured the man of the match award.
in the one-day international commonwealth bank tri-series involving india, sri lanka and australia, tendulkar became the only batsman to complete 16,000 runs in odis. he achieved this feat against sri lanka on 5 february 2008 at the gabba in brisbane. he started the cb series well notching up scores of 10, 35, 44 and 32, but could not convert the starts into bigger scores. his form dipped a bit in the middle of the tournament, but tendulkar came back strongly in india's must-win game against sri lanka at the bellerive oval in hobart, scoring 63 off 54 balls. he finished the series with a match winning 117 not out off 120 balls in the first final, and 91 runs in the second final.


=== home series against south africaedit ===
south africa toured in march and april 2008 for a three-test series. tendulkar scored a five-ball duck in his only innings of the series; he sustained a groin strain in the match and as a result was forced not only to miss the second and third tests, but also the tri-series involving bangladesh, the 2008 asia cup, and the first half of the inaugural season of the ipl.


=== sri lanka seriesedit ===
before the touring sri lanka for three test in july 2008, tendulkar needed just 177 runs to go past brian lara's record of test 11,953 runs. however, he failed in all six innings, scoring a total of just 95 runs. india lost the series and his average of 15.83 was his worst in a test series with at least three matches.


=== return to form and breaking brian lara's recordedit ===
in the following odi series against sri lanka, tendulkar was sidelined due to injury. however, during the following australia tour of india, he returned to fitness and form, scoring 13 and 49 in the first test before making 88 in the first innings of the second test, breaking the record for most number of test runs held by brian lara. he also reached the 12,000 run mark when he was on 61. he described the achievement as the biggest in 19 years of his career on the day he achieved the record. he made a fifty in the third test and 109 in the fourth, as india won the series 2 0 and regained the border-gavaskar trophy.


=== odi and test series against englandedit ===
tendulkar was again out of the first three odis of a seven-match odi series at home against england due to an injury, but he made 11 in the fourth odi and 50 in the fifth, before the series was called off due to the 2008 mumbai terrorist attacks, the scoreline being 5 0 to india.
england returned for a two-match test series in december 2008, and the first test, which was originally planned to be held in mumbai, was shifted to chennai following the terror attacks. chasing 387 for victory in that match, tendulkar scored 103 not out and shared a 163-run unbroken fifth wicket partnership with yuvraj singh. this was his third century in the fourth innings of a test match, and the first which resulted in a win. he dedicated this century to the victims of the mumbai terror attacks. tendulkar failed in both innings in the second test at mohali, which ended in a draw. india won the series 1 0.


=== 2009 2010edit ===

in early 2009, india revisited sri lanka for five odis, as the pakistan series had been cancelled due to the security situation in pakistan and the attacks in mumbai. tendulkar scored 5, 6 and 7 in the first three matches, being dismissed leg before wicket in all of them, and did not play in the remaining two matches.
india's next assignment was an away series against new zealand, consisting of three tests and five odis. in the odi series, tendulkar made an unbeaten 163 in the third match before stomach cramps forced him to end his innings. india made 392, won the match and eventually won the series 3 1. tendulkar made 160 in the first test, his 42nd test century, and india won. he made 49 and 64 in the second test and 62 and 9 in the third, in which play was halted on the last day due to rain with india needing only two wickets to win. india won the series 1 0.
tendulkar rested himself for the odi tour of west indies, but was back for the compaq cup tri series between india, sri lanka and new zealand in early september 2009. he made 46 and 27 in the league matches before notching up 138 in the final, as india made 319 and won by 46 runs. this was tendulkar's sixth century in a final of an odi tournament and his third consecutive score of over 50 in such finals.
tendulkar played just one innings in the icc champions trophy in south africa, scoring 8 against pakistan as india lost. the next match against australia was abandoned due to rain and he was out with a stomach infection in the third match against the west indies, as india were eliminated.
australia returned for a seven-match odi series in india in october, and tendulkar made 14, 4, 32 and 40 in the first four games. in the fifth match, with the series tied at 2 2, australia amassed 350/4 in 50 overs. tendulkar made his 45th odi hundred, a 175 off 141 balls. just when it seemed that he would steer india to the large victory target, he tried to scoop a slower delivery from debutant bowler clint mckay over short fine leg only to be caught by nathan hauritz, with india needing 19 runs to win with 18 balls and four wickets left. the indian tail collapsed, and australia won the match by three runs. during this match, tendulkar also became the first player to reach 17,000 odi runs, and achieved his personal best against australia, as well as the third highest score in a defeat.
in the five-match odi series against sri lanka in 2009 10, tendulkar scored 69, 43, 96 not out and 8 in the first four matches, with the fifth match being abandoned as the pitch was deemed unfit and potentially dangerous. india won the series 3 1. in the test series that followed, he scored a 100 not out in the first test, which was drawn, and 40 and 53 in the second and third tests respectively as india clinched innings victories in both the tests, to win the series 2 0.
sachin rested himself for the odi tri-series in bangladesh in 2010, but played in the subsequent test series. he made 105 not out and 16 in the first test, and 143 in the second. india won both the tests.
in the two-test series against south africa, tendulkar made 7 and 100 in the first test. he then scored 106 in the first innings of the second test, which was his 47th hundred in test cricket. it was also his fourth hundred in successive tests, and he was the fourth indian to achieve this feat. in the second match of the subsequent odi series, tendulkar scored 200 not out, becoming the world's first batsman to score a double century in odi cricket and breaking the previous highest score of 194 jointly held by pakistan's saeed anwar and zimbabwe's charles coventry.


=== 2011 world cup and afteredit ===
from february to april, bangladesh, india, and sri lanka hosted the 2011 world cup. amassing 482 runs at an average of 53.55 including two centuries, tendulkar was india's leading run-scorer for the tournament; only tillakaratne dilshan of sri lanka scored more runs in the 2011 tournament. india defeated sri lanka in the final. shortly after the victory, tendulkar commented that "winning the world cup is the proudest moment of my life. ... i couldn't control my tears of joy."
india were due to tour the west indies in june, although tendulkar chose not to participate. he returned to the squad in july for india's tour of england. throughout the tour there was much hype in the media about whether tendulkar would reach his 100th century in international cricket (test and odis combined). however his highest score in the tests was 91; tendulkar averaged 34.12 in the series as england won 4 0 as they deposed india as the no. 1 ranked test side. the injury tendulkar sustained to his right foot in 2001 flared up and as a result he was ruled out of the odi series that followed. tendulkar created another record on 8 november 2011 when he became the first cricketer to score 15,000 runs in test cricket, during the opening test match against the west indies at the feroz shah kotla stadium in new delhi.
ian chappell was not happy with sachin's performance after india's tour of australia. he says that sachin's quest for his 100th hundred has proved to be a hurdle for the entire team and has hampered their performance on the tour of australia. former india world cup winning captain and all-rounder kapil dev has also voiced his opinion that sachin should have retired from odi's after the world cup. former australian fast bowler, geoff lawson, has said that sachin has the right to decide when to quit although he adds that tendulkar should not delay it for too long. the selection committee of bcci expectedly included sachin in the national test squad for the upcoming series against new zealand commencing in august 2012.


==== 100th international centuryedit ====
tendulkar scored his much awaited 100th international hundred on 16 march 2012, at mirpur against bangladesh in the asia cup. he became the first person in history to achieve this feat. incidentally, it was tendulkar's first odi hundred against bangladesh. he said "it's been a tough phase for me ... i was not thinking about the milestone, the media started all this, wherever i went, the restaurant, room service, everyone was talking about the 100th hundred. nobody talked about my 99 hundreds. it became mentally tough for me because nobody talked about my 99 hundreds." despite tendulkar's century, india failed to win the match against bangladesh, losing by 5 wickets.


==== return to ranji trophyedit ====
after getting out bowled on 3 similar instances against the new zealand recently and hitting a slump in form, tendulkar returned to the ranji trophy to get back some form ahead of the england series at home, in a match for mumbai against railways on 2 november 2012. all eyes were on tendulkar, who was playing his first ranji trophy match since 2009. and he did not disappoint smashing 137 off 136 balls with 21 fours and 3 sixes, to take his team to 344 for 4 at stumps on day one.
however, because of a poor form in the first two tests in the series against england, and india being humiliated in the second match of that series by 10 wickets on 26 november 2012, some people have started to question his place in the indian team. a report by the hindustan times said that tendulkar had a discussion with the national chief selector sandeep patil, in which he said that he would leave it to the selectors to decide on his future as he is not getting any runs. this speculation, however, was later considered to be false.
then he decided to play in the knockout stage of the 2012-13 ranji trophy. he scored 108 in the quarter final against baroda before being bowled by murtuja vahora, where sachin was involved in a 234-run partnership with opener wasim jaffer (150) for the 3rd wicket at wankhede stadium. mumbai eventually piled on 645/9 and won on 1st innings lead. in the semi final against services at palam a ground, with mumbai reeling at 23/3, sachin scored 56 from 75 balls and had an 81-run 4th wicket partnership with abhishek nayar (70), and mumbai eventually won on 1st innings lead after the match went into the sixth day due to rain delays. in the final against saurashtra, he was run out for 22 following a misunderstanding with wasim jaffer. mumbai eventually won the ranji trophy 2012 13.
he also played in the irani trophy for mumbai, where he scored 140* against rest of india and helped mumbai to score 409 in reply to rest of india's 526. this was also his 81st hundred in first-class cricket, equalling sunil gavaskar's indian record for most first-class hundreds.


=== retirementedit ===

following poor performance in the 2012 series against england, tendulkar announced his retirement from one day internationals on 23 december 2012, while noting that he will be available for test cricket. in response to the news, former india captain sourav ganguly noted that tendulkar could have played the up-coming series against pakistan, while anil kumble said it would be "tough to see an indian (odi) team list without tendulkar's name in it", and javagal srinath mentioned that tendulkar "changed the way odis were played right from the time he opened in new zealand in 1994".
after playing his lone twenty20 international in 2006 against south africa, he stated that he would not play t20 internationals any more. he announced his retirement from ipl after his team mumbai indians beat chennai super kings by 23 runs at the eden gardens in kolkata on 26 may to win the pepsi indian premier league 2013. he retired from twenty20 cricket and limited-overs cricket, after playing the 2013 champions league twenty20 in september october 2013 in india for mumbai indians.
on 10 october 2013 tendulkar announced that he would retire from all cricket after the two-test series against west indies in november. later the bcci confirmed that the two matches will be played at kolkata and mumbai, making the farewell happen at his home ground on tendulkar's request. he scored 74 runs in his last test innings against west indies, thus failing short by 79 runs to complete 16,000 runs in test cricket. the cricket association of bengal and the mumbai cricket association organised events to mark his retirement from the sport. various national and international figures from cricket, politics, bollywood and other fields spoke about him in a day-long salaam sachin conclave organised by india today.
in july 2014, he captained the mcc side in the bicentenary celebration match at lord's. in december 2014, he was announced ambassador of the icc cricket world cup 2015 event. it is his second term as he has already held the ambassador of the previous icc cricket world cup 2011. so he is heading the ambassador position of the icc cricket world cup in consecutive terms of the cricket world cup (2011 and 2015).


== indian premier league and champions leagueedit ==
tendulkar was made the icon player and captain for his home side, the mumbai indians in the inaugural indian premier league twenty20 competition in 2008. as an icon player, he was signed for a sum of us$1,121,250, 15% more than the second-highest paid player in the team, sanath jayasuriya.
in 2010 edition of indian premier league, mumbai indians reached the final of the tournament. tendulkar made 618 runs in 14 innings during the tournament, breaking shaun marsh's record of most runs in an ipl season. he was declared player of the tournament for his performance during the season. he also won best batsman and best captain awards at 2010 ipl awards ceremony.
sachin tendulkar captained mumbai indians in 4 league matches of second edition of the league. he scored 68 in the first match and 48 against guyana. but mumbai indians failed to qualify for semifinals after losing the initial two matches. tendulkar scored 135 runs.
in the 2011 ipl, against kochi tuskers kerala, tendulkar scored his maiden twenty20 hundred. he scored 100 not out off 66 balls. in 51 matches in the ipl tendulkar has scored 1,723 runs, making him the second-highest run-scorer in the competition's history. in 2013, sachin retired from indian premier league and currently in 2014 he is appointed as the mumbai indian team's 'icon'.


== play styleedit ==

tendulkar is cross-dominant: he bats, bowls and throws with his right hand, but writes with his left hand. he also practices left-handed throws at the nets on a regular basis. cricinfo columnist sambit bal has described him as the "most wholesome batsman of his time". his batting is based on complete balance and poise while limiting unnecessary movements and flourishes. he appears to show little preference for the slow and low wickets which are typical in india, and has scored many centuries on the hard, bouncy pitches in south africa and australia. he is known for his unique punch style of hitting the ball over square. he is also renowned for his picture-perfect straight drive, often completed with no follow-through. the straight drive is often said to be his favourite shot. in 2008, sunil gavaskar, in an article he wrote in the afp, remarked that "it is hard to imagine any player in the history of the game who combines classical technique with raw aggression like the little champion does".
sir donald bradman, considered by many as the greatest batsman of all time, considered tendulkar to have a batting style similar to his. in his biography, it is stated that "bradman was most taken by tendulkar's technique, compactness and shot production, and had asked his wife to have a look at tendulkar, having felt that tendulkar played like him. bradman's wife, jessie, agreed that they did appear similar."

former australian cricket team coach john buchanan voiced his opinion that tendulkar had become susceptible to the short ball early in his innings because of a lack of footwork. buchanan also believes tendulkar has a weakness while playing left-arm pace. he was affected by a series of injuries since 2004. since then tendulkar's batting has tended to be less attacking. explaining this change in his batting style, he has acknowledged that he is batting differently because, firstly, no batsman can bat the same way for the entire length of a long career and, secondly, he is a senior member of the team now and thus has more responsibility. during the early part of his career, he was a more attacking batsman and frequently scored centuries at close to a run a ball. ian chappell, former australian player, remarked in 2007 that "tendulkar now, is nothing like the player he was when he was a young bloke".
tendulkar has incorporated several modern and unorthodox strokes into his repertoire, including the paddle sweep, the scoop over short fine leg and the slash to third man over the slips' heads, over the last seven or eight years. he is often praised for his ability to adapt to the needs of his body and yet keep scoring consistently.

while tendulkar is not a regular bowler, he can bowl medium pace, leg spin, and off spin. he often bowls when two batsmen of the opposite team have been batting together for a long period, as he can often be a useful partnership breaker. with his bowling, he has helped secure an indian victory on more than one occasion. he has taken 201 international wickets   46 in tests, 154 in odis where he is india's tenth highest wicket taker, and one wicket in twenty20 internationals.


== fan followingedit ==

tendulkar's entry into world cricket was hyped up by former indian stars and those who had seen him play. tendulkar's consistent performances earned him a fan following across the globe, including amongst australian crowds, where tendulkar has consistently scored centuries. one of the most popular sayings by his fans is "cricket is my religion and sachin is my god". cricinfo mentions in his profile that "... tendulkar remains, by a distance, the most worshipped cricketer in the world." during the australian tour of india in 1998 matthew hayden said "i have seen god. he bats at no. 4 in india in tests." however, on god, tendulkar himself is reported to have said "i am not god of cricket. i make mistakes, god doesn't." tendulkar made a special appearance in the bollywood film stumped in 2003, appearing as himself. yet, he is the one perceived god-like national figure that unites a nation of many religions.
there have been many instances when tendulkar's fans have undertaken extreme activities over his dismissal in the game. as reported by many indian newspapers, a person hanged himself due to distress over tendulkar's failure to reach his 100th century. sudhir kumar chaudhary, a fan of tendulkar from bihar, has followed almost all the matches played by sachin since 2003 and has sacrificed his personal life to watch sachin's play.
at home in mumbai, tendulkar's fan following has caused him to lead a different lifestyle. ian chappell has said that he would be unable to cope with the lifestyle tendulkar was forced to lead, having to "wear a wig and go out and watch a movie only at night". in an interview with tim sheridan, tendulkar admitted that he sometimes went for quiet drives in the streets of mumbai late at night when he would be able to enjoy some peace and silence. tendulkar has a presence in the popular social networking site twitter with the user name sachin_rt, since may 2010.


== achievementsedit ==

sachin tendulkar is the leading run scorer in tests, with 15,921 runs, as well as in one-day internationals, with 18,426 runs. he is the only player to score more than 30,000 runs in all forms of international cricket (tests, odis and twenty20 internationals). he is the 16th player and the first indian to score 50,000 runs in all forms of domestic and international recognised cricket (first-class, list a and twenty20). he achieved this feat on 5 october 2013, during a champions league twenty20 match for his ipl team mumbai indians against trinidad and tobago.
he also holds the record of the highest number of centuries in both tests (51) and odis (49) as well as in tests and odis combined (100). on 16 march 2012, tendulkar scored his 100th international hundred. it came against bangladesh in the league matches of asia cup 2012. he is also the only player to score fifty centuries in test cricket, and the first to score fifty centuries in all international cricket combined. he also holds the world record for playing the highest number of test matches (200) and odi matches (463). tendulkar has been part of most wins by an indian in both test cricket with 72 wins and odis with 234 wins and is third in the world in odi victories after ricky ponting(262 wins), mahela jayawardene(241 wins).
tendulkar has scored over 1000 runs in a calendar year in odis 7 times, and in 1998 he scored 1,894 runs, the record for the highest number of runs scored by any player in a single calendar year for one-day internationals. he is the first male cricketer to score a double-century in one-day cricket.
he has been man of the match 13 times in test matches and man of the series four times, out of them twice in the border-gavaskar trophy against australia. the performances earned him respect from australian cricket fans and players. similarly he has been man of the match 62 times in one day international matches and man of the series 15 times. he became the first batsman to score 12,000, 13,000, 14,000 and 15,000 runs in test cricket, having also been the third batsman and the first indian to pass 11,000 runs in that form of the game. he was also the first player to score 10,000 runs in one-day internationals, and also the first player to cross every subsequent 1000-run mark that has been crossed in odi cricket history. in the fourth test of the 2008 09 border-gavaskar trophy against australia at nagpur on 6 november 2008, tendulkar surpassed australia's allan border to become the player to cross the 50-run mark the most number of times in test cricket history, and also the second ever player to score 11 test centuries against australia, tying with sir jack hobbs of england more than 70 years previously. on 8 november 2011, tendulkar became the first batsman to score 15,000 runs in test cricket.
tendulkar has consistently done well in cricket world cups. tendulkar was the highest run scorer of the 1996 cricket world cup with a total of 523 runs and also of the 2003 cricket world cup with 673 runs. after his century against england during group stages of 2011 cricket world cup, he became the player to hit most number of centuries in cricket world cups with six centuries and the first player to score 2000 runs in world cup cricket.


=== national honoursedit ===
1994   arjuna award, by the government of india in recognition of his outstanding achievement in sports.
1997 98   rajiv gandhi khel ratna, india's highest honour given for achievement in sports.
1999   padma shri, india's fourth highest civilian award.
2001   maharashtra bhushan award, maharashtra state's highest civilian award.
2008   padma vibhushan, india's second highest civilian award.
2014   bharat ratna, india's highest civilian award.


=== other honoursedit ===
1997   wisden cricketer of the year.
2002   in commemorating tendulkar's feat of equalling don bradman's 29 centuries in test cricket, automotive company ferrari invited him to its paddock in silverstone on the eve of the british grand prix on 23 july, to receive a ferrari 360 modena from the f1 world champion michael schumacher.
2003   player of the tournament in 2003 cricket world cup.
2004, 2007, 2010   icc world odi xi.
2009, 2010, 2011   icc world test xi.
2010   outstanding achievement in sport and the peoples choice award at the asian awards in london.
2010   wisden leading cricketer in the world.
2010   icc award-sir garfield sobers trophy for cricketer of the year.
2010   lg people's choice award.
2010   made an honorary group captain by the indian air force.
2011   bcci cricketer of the year award.
2011   castrol indian cricketer of the year award.
2012   wisden india outstanding achievement award.
2012   honorary life membership of sydney cricket ground (scg)
2012   honorary member of the order of australia, given by the australian government.
2013   indian postal service released a stamp of tendulkar and he became the second indian after mother teresa to have such stamp released in their lifetime.


== personal lifeedit ==


=== familyedit ===
on 24 may 1995, at the age of 22, tendulkar married anjali, a paediatrician and daughter of gujarati industrialist anand mehta and british social worker annabel mehta. sachin's father-in-law, anand mehta, is a seven-time national bridge champion. anjali is six years his senior. his wife anjali said in an interview that she first met him at the mumbai airport when he returned from his first tour of england in 1990, after scoring his maiden test ton and when she was there to pick up her mother and sachin was arriving with the indian team. they had a courtship of five years and had got engaged in 1994 in new zealand. they have two children, sara (born 12 october 1997) and arjun (born 24 september 1999). arjun, a left handed batsman and left arm seamer, has recently been included in under-14 probables list of mumbai cricket association for off-season training camp. in january 2013 he was selected in mumbai under-14 team for the west zone league. in 2015, he became a net bowler for english batsmen, having been a net batsman for india back in 2011 as an 11-year-old.


=== beliefsedit ===
tendulkar is an ardent devotee of sathya sai baba of puttaparthi. he has visited puttaparthi on several occasions to seek baba's blessings. in 1997, tendulkar captained the indian national side, playing against a world eleven team, in the unity cup which was held at the hill view stadium in puttaparthi, in baba's presence. after sai baba's death, tendulkar broke into tears when he saw the body of baba in puttaparthi, and cancelled his birthday celebrations. the cricketer is also known to celebrate ganesh chaturthi at home and frequently visits temples during night when it is calm and quiet. he performed the superstitious rituals of n ga dosha pooja and sarpa samskara in 2006 at the kukke subramanya temple in mangalore.


=== business interestsedit ===
tendulkar's immense popularity has led him to be an early pioneer in india on cricket business dealings when he signed a record sports management deal with worldtel in 1995, the value of the deal being  30 crore (us$4.5 million) over five years. his next contract with worldtel in 2001 was valued at  80 crore (us$12 million) over five years. in 2006, he signed a contract with saatchi and saatchi's iconix valued at  180 crore (us$27 million) over three years.
tendulkar has opened two restaurants: tendulkar's (colaba, mumbai) and sachin's (mulund, mumbai) and bangalore. sachin owns these restaurants in partnership with sanjay narang of mars restaurants.
in 2007, tendulkar also announced a jv with the future group and manipal group to launch healthcare and sports fitness products under the brand name 's drive and sach'. a series of comic books by virgin comics is also due to be published featuring him as a superhero.
sachin tendulkar co-owns the kochi isl team in the indian super league football in association with pvp ventures owned by prasad v potluri. the team has been named as kerala blasters after his nickname "master blaster". the first edition of the isl is slated to be held during september to november 2014.
tendulkar is the 51st richest sportsman in the world according to forbes' list of world's highest-paid athletes for the year 2013, with his total earnings estimated to be usd 22 million. in october 2013, the net worth of tendulkar was estimated at usd 160 million by wealth x, making him india's wealthiest cricket player.


=== commercial endorsementsedit ===
sachin tendulkar has been sponsored by several brands throughout his career including boost (1990 present), pepsi (1992 2009), action shoes (1995 2000), mrf (1999 2009), adidas (2000 10), britannia (2001 07), fiat palio (2001 03), tvs (2002 05), espn star sports (2002 present), sunfeast (2007 13), canon (2006 09), airtel (2004 06), reynolds (2007 present), g-hanz (2005 07), sanyo bpl (2007 present), toshiba (2010 present), colgate-palmolive, philips, visa, castrol india (2011 12), ujala techno bright, coca-cola (2011 13) and musafir.com (2013 present).
he has also been a spokesperson for national egg coordination committee (2003 05), aids awareness campaign (2005) and luminous india (2010 present).


=== rajya sabha nominationedit ===
in april 2012, tendulkar accepted the rajya sabha nomination proposed by the president of india and became the first active sportsperson and cricketer to have been nominated. former cricketers sanjay manjrekar, ajit wadekar, madan lal expressed their surprise over this move.
on 2 may, tendulkar was elected to seat number 103 in the rajya sabha and took the oath on 4 june. he refused to take the bungalow allotted to him in new delhi calling it "waste of tax payer's money" as he resides in mumbai. he met with some controversy over his attendance in rajya sabha proceedings. tendulkar has also been accused of not using development fund rajya sabha members receive.


=== philanthropyedit ===
tendulkar sponsors 200 underprivileged children every year through apnalaya, a mumbai-based ngo associated with his mother-in-law, annabel mehta. a request from sachin on twitter raised  1.02 crore (us$150,000) through sachin's crusade against cancer for the crusade against cancer foundation. sachin tendulkar spent nine hours on the 12-hour coca-cola-ndtv support my school telethon on 18 september 2011 that helped raise   7 crore     2 crore more than the target   for from the creation of basic facilities, particularly toilets for girl students, in 140 government schools across the country.


== biographiesedit ==
sachin tendulkar has been the subject of various books. the following is the listing of books focused on tendulkar's career:
sachin: the story of the world's greatest batsman by gulu ezekiel. publisher: penguin global. isbn 978-0-14-302854-3
sachin tendulkar opus
the a to z of sachin tendulkar by gulu ezekiel. publisher: penguin global. isbn 978-81-7476-530-7
sachin tendulkar-a definitive biography by vaibhav purandare. publisher: roli books. isbn 81-7436-360-2
sachin tendulkar   masterful by peter murray, ashish shukla. publisher: rupa. isbn 81-7167-806-8
if cricket is a religion, sachin is god by vijay santhanam, shyam balasubramanian. publisher: harpercollins india isbn 978-81-7223-821-6
master stroke: 100 centuries of sachin tendulkar by neelima athalye. publisher: sakal publications. isbn 978-93-80571-84-3
dhruvtara, a book on cricket maestro sachin tendulkar, was launched as an audio book on monday, 15 october 2012 to mark white cane day.
sachin ke sau shatak by dharmender panth, a book on tendulkar's 100 centuries written in hindi. isbn 9788123765242
sachin tendulkar: masterful by peter murray, ashish shukla. publisher:murray advertising. isbn 81-7167-806-8
playing it my way   an autobiography. isbn 978-14-736-0520-6


== see alsoedit ==

achievements of sachin tendulkar
collection of quotations related to sachin tendulkar
indian national cricket captains
list of fastest to reach multiples of 1000 runs in odi
list of international cricket centuries by sachin tendulkar
list of odi awards for sachin tendulkar
list of one day international cricket records
politics and sports


== notesedit ==
^ craig white, although born in yorkshire was the first player to be signed as an overseas player by yorkshire. he had to be listed as an overseas player as he had already played for victoria in australia.
^ belinda clark of the australian women's cricket team was the first cricketer (of any gender) to score 200 or more in an odi match. she scored 229* in a 1997 women's cricket world cup match against denmark.


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
player profile: sachin tendulkar from espncricinfo
sachin tendulkar's profile page on wisden
player profile: sachin tendulkar from cricketarchive
player profile: sachin tendulkar from yahoo! cricket
sachin tendulkar's official page on facebook.

sunil manohar "sunny" gavaskar  pronunciation  (born 10 july 1949) is an indian former cricketer who played during the 1970s and 1980s for the mumbai cricket team and indian national team. widely regarded as one of the greatest opening batsmen in cricket history, gavaskar set world records during his career for the most test runs and most test centuries scored by any batsman. he held the record of 34 test centuries for almost two decades before it was broken by sachin tendulkar in december 2005.
gavaskar was widely admired for his technique against fast bowling, with a particularly high average of 65.45 against the west indies, who possessed a four-pronged fast bowling attack regarded as the most vicious in test history. his captaincy of the indian team, however, was less successful. there were incidents like crowd displeasure at eden gardens in calcutta leading to multiple matches being disrupted, in response to the poor performance of the indian team. turbulent performances of the team led to multiple exchanges of captaincy between gavaskar and kapil dev, with one of gavaskar's sackings coming just six months before kapil led india to victory at the 1983 cricket world cup.
gavaskar is a recipient of the indian civilian honours of the padma shri and the padma bhushan. in 2012, he was awarded the col ck nayudu lifetime achievement award for cricket in india.
on 28 march 2014, supreme court of india, appointed gavaskar as the interim bcci president primarily to oversee 7th season of indian premier league. the court also directed him to relinquish his job as a cricket commentator.


== domestic debutedit ==
born in mumbai and growing up in the city, young sunil was named india's best schoolboy cricketer of the year in 1966. he scored 246*, 222 and 85 in school cricket in his final year of secondary education, before striking a century against the touring london schoolboys. he made his first-class debut for vazir sultan colts xi against an xi from dungarpur, in 1966/67, but remained in mumbai's ranji trophy squad for two further years without playing a match. an alumnus of mumbai's renown st. xavier's college, he made his debut in the 1968/69 season against karnataka, but made a duck and was the subject of derisive claims that his selection was due to the presence of his uncle madhav mantri, a former indian test wicketkeeper, on mumbai's selection committee. he responded with 114 against rajasthan in his second match, and two further consecutive centuries saw him selected in the 1970/71 indian team to tour the west indies.


== test debutedit ==
after missing the first test due to an infected fingernail, gavaskar scored 65 and 67 not out in the second test in port-of-spain, trinidad, hitting the winning runs which gave india its first ever win over the west indies. he followed this with his first century, 116 and 64* in the third test in georgetown, guyana, and 1 and 117* in the fourth test in bridgetown, barbados. he returned to trinidad for the fifth test and scored 124 and 220 to help india to its first ever series victory over the west indies, and the only one until 2006. his performance in the test made him the second player after doug walters to score a century and double century in the same match. he also became the first indian to make four centuries in one test series, the second indian after vijay hazare to score two centuries in the same test, and the third after hazare and polly umrigar to score centuries in three consecutive innings. he was the first indian to aggregate more than 700 runs in a series, and this 774 runs at 154.80 remains the most runs scored in a debut series by any batsman. trinidad calypso singer lord relator (willard harris) wrote a song in gavaskar's honour, the "gavaskar calypso".
gavaskar's arrival in england in 1971 for a three-test series generated substantial publicity in light of his debut series. he was unable to maintain his performance, making only two half centuries. he was involved in controversy when taking a quick single from the bowling of john snow. they collided and gavaskar fell over. snow was charged with deliberately barging into gavaskar and was suspended. gavaskar's 144 runs at the low average of 24, led some to question gavaskar's worthiness in international cricket.
in 1972 73, england toured india for a five-test series, gavaskar's first on home soil. he was ineffective in the first three tests, accumulating only sixty runs in five innings as india took a 2 1 lead. he scored some runs in the final two tests which india drew to complete consecutive series wins over england. his first home series was largely disappointing, aggregating 224 runs at 24.89. his english critics were placated when india returned in 1974 and gavaskar scored 101 and 58 in the first test at old trafford. he managed 227 runs at 37.83 as india were whitewashed 3 0.
gavaskar's 1974 75 series against the west indies was interrupted, playing in only the first and fifth and final test of the series against the west indies. he scored 108 runs at 27, with an 86 at mumbai the closest the indian public got to seeing a century. the test was the start of a world record streak of 106 test appearances.
the 1975 76 season saw three and four test tours of new zealand and the west indies respectively. gavaskar led india in a test for the first time in january 1976 against new zealand during the first test in auckland when regular captain bishen bedi was suffering from a leg injury. standing in despite having scored only 703 runs at 28.12 since his debut series, gavaskar rewarded the selectors with 116 and 35*. as a result, india secured an eight wicket victory. he ended the series with 266 runs at 66.33. on the west indian leg of the tour, gavaskar scored consecutive centuries of 156 and 102 in the second and third tests, both in port of spain, trinidad. these were his third and fourth centuries at the grounds. in the third test, his 102 helped india post 4/406 to set a world record for the highest winning fourth innings score. the indians' mastery of the caribbean spinners on a turning track reportedly led west indian captain clive lloyd to vow that he would rely on pace alone in future tests. gavaskar totalled 390 runs at 55.71 for the series.
gavaskar was not to score a century on home soil until november 1976. in an eight test summer, three and five against new zealand and england respectively, gavaskar scored centuries in the first and last tests of the season. the first was 119 in front of his home crowd at the wankhede stadium, helping india to a victory. gavaskar scored another half century in the second test to end the series with 259 at 43.16. in the first test against england at delhi, he was mobbed upon becoming the first indian to reach 1000 test runs in a calendar year. a steady series saw him finish with 394 runs at 39.4 with a century coming in the fifth test and two half centuries.
in 1977 78 he toured australia, scoring three consecutive test centuries (113, 127, 118) in the second innings of the first three tests at brisbane, perth and melbourne respectively. india won the third but lost the earlier two. he finished the five test series with 450 runs at 50, failing twice as india lost the final test and the series 3 2.
1978 79 saw india tour pakistan for the first series between the arch rivals for 17 years. for the first time, gavaskar faced pakistani pace spearhead imran khan, who described him as "the most compact batsman i've bowled to." gavaskar scored 89 in the first test and 97 in the second, which india drew and lost respectively. gavaskar saved his best for the third test in karachi, scoring 111 and 137 in the third, but was unable to prevent a defeat and series loss. his twin centuries made him the first indian to score two centuries in one test on two occasions, and saw him pass umrigar as india's leading test run-scorer. gavaskar had finished the series with 447 runs at 89.40.


== captaincyedit ==

gavaskar was captain of the indian team on several occasions in the late 1970s and early 1980s, although his record is less than impressive. often equipped with unpenetrative bowling attacks he tended to use conservative tactics which resulted in a large number of draws. during his tenure, kapil dev emerged as a leading pace bowler for the country. he captained india to nine victories and eight losses, but most of the games were drawn, 30.
his first series in charge was a west indian visit to india for a six test series. gavaskar's several large centuries contrasted with several failures. his 205 in the first test made him the first indian to score a double century in india against the west indies. he added a further 73 in the second innings of a high scoring draw. after failing to score in the second test, he scored 107 and 182 not out in the third test at calcutta, another high scoring draw. this made him the first player in test history to achieve centuries in both innings of a test three times. he managed only 4 and 1 in the fourth test in madras as india forced the only win of the series. he posted a fourth century for the series, scoring 120 in the fifth test at delhi, becoming the first indian to pass 4000 test runs. he aggregated 732 runs at 91.50 for the series, securing india a 1 0 win in his first series as captain.
despite this, he was stripped of the captaincy when india toured england in 1979 for a four test tour. the official reason given was that srinivas venkataraghavan was preferred due to his superior experience on english soil, but most observers believed that gavaskar was punished because he was believed to be considering defecting to world series cricket. he started consistently, scoring four half centuries in five innings of the first three tests. it was in the fourth test at the oval that he produced his finest innings on english soil. india were 1 0 down needed to reach a world record target of 438 to square the series. they reached 76/0 at stumps on the fourth day. led by gavaskar, india made steady progress to be 328/1 with 20 overs remaining on the final day with a record breaking victory still possible. an ian botham led fightback saw gavaskar removed, with india still needing 49 runs from 46 balls. with three balls left in the match, all four results were possible. india ended nine runs short with two wickets in hand when stumps were drawn. according to sanjay manjrekar, it was "vintage gavaskar, playing swing bowling to perfection, taking his time initially and then opening up. nothing in the air, everything copybook." he ended the series with 542 runs at 77.42 and was named as one of the wisden cricketers of the year.
gavaskar was restored to the captaincy for the gruelling 1979 80 season, with six test home series against both australia and pakistan. the first two tests against australia were high scoring draws where only 45 wickets fell, with india taking a first innings lead in both after making scores over 400. india broke through for a 153 run win in the third test at kanpur, where gavaskar scored 76. he made 115 in the fourth test in delhi, where india were unable to convert a 212 run first innings lead, resulting in a draw. after another stalemate in the fifth test, gavaskar scored 123 in the sixth test, where australia collapsed by an innings after india posted their fourth first innings in excess of 400 for the series. the series against pakistan was similarly high scoring, with four draws, three of which did not reach the fourth innings. india won the third and fifth tests in mumbai and madras. at madras, he made 166 in the first innings and was unbeaten on 29 when india brought up the winning runs. having secured the series 2 0, gavaskar was removed from the captaincy for the drawn sixth test. this occurred because gavaskar had refused to tour the west indies for another series immediately afterwards, asking for a rest. as a result, gundappa viswanath was appointed so that he could prepare his leadership skills for the tour. in the end the tour did not go ahead as the west indian board were not interested in a team without gavaskar. the season ended with a one off test against england in mumbai, which india lost. in the 13 tests that season, he made 1027 runs at 51.35 with three centuries and four half centuries. this ended a 14-month span in which gavaskar played in 22 tests and the 1979 cricket world cup. in that time, he scored 2301 test runs including eight centuries.
the 1980 81 season saw gavaskar returned as captain for the australasian tour, but it was to be the start of an unhappy reign for gavaskar and india. he managed only 118 runs at 19.66 in the three tests against australia, but his impact in australia was for a controversial incident. at the melbourne cricket ground, when gavaskar was given out by the australian umpire rex whitehead, he ordered his fellow opener chetan chauhan off the field. instead of abandoning the match, the indian manager, sk durani persuaded chauhan to return to the match which india went on to win by 59 runs as australia collapsed to 83 in their second innings. india drew the series 1 1 but the following three test series in new zealand was to signal the start of a barren run of 19 tests under gavaskar of which india were to win only one and lose five. india lost to new zealand 1 0, with gavaskar managing 126 runs at 25.2. he finished the oceania tour with 244 runs at 22.18, with only two half centuries, making little impact.
the 1981 82 indian season saw a hard-fought 1 0 series win over england in six tests. india took the first test, before five consecutive draws resulted, four of which did not even reach the fourth innings. gavaskar made 172 in the second test at bangalore and reached a half century on three further occasions to compile 500 runs at 62.5. india reciprocated england's visit in 1982 for a three test series, which was lost 1 0. gavaskar made 74 runs at 24.66 but was unable to bat in the third test.
the 1982 83 subcontinental season started well for gavaskar on an individual note, as he made 155 in a one off test against sri lanka in madras. it was the first test between the two nations, with sri lankan having only recently been awarded test status. despite this, india were unable to finish off their novice opponents, the draw heralding a start of a winless summer. india played in twelve tests, losing five and drawing seven. the first series was a six test tour to pakistan. india started well enough, drawing the first test in lahore, with gavaskar scoring 83. pakistan then defeated india in three consecutive matches. in the third test in faisalabad, gavaskar managed an unbeaten 127 in the second innings to force pakistan into a run chase, but the other two losses were substantial, both by an innings. despite holding on for draws in the last two tests, gavaskar was replaced by kapil dev as captain after the 3 0 loss. despite his team's difficulties, gavaskar remained productive with 434 runs at 47.18 with a century and three half centuries. gavaskar went on to the west indies for a five test tour purely as a batsman, but could not reproduce the form that he had shown in the caribbean in 1971 and 1976. he managed only 240 runs at 30, as india were crushed 2 0 by the world champions. apart from an unbeaten 147 in the drawn third test in georgetown, guyana, his next best effort was 32.
the 1983 84 season started with a home series against pakistan, with all three matches being drawn. gavaskar scored an unbeaten 103 in the first test in bangalore, and made two further half centuries to total 264 runs at 66.


=== overtook bradman's test recordedit ===
the pakistan's test series was followed by a six test series against the touring west indies at the height of their powers. the first test was held in kanpur and india were crushed by an innings. gavaskar had his bat knocked out of his hand by a hostile delivery from malcolm marshall before being dismissed. in the second test in delhi, gavaskar delivered his riposte to marshall, hooking him for a consecutive four and six to start his innings. gavaskar, unwilling to be dictated to by the caribbean pacemen, hooked the short pitched barrage relentlessly, reaching his half century in 37 balls. he then went on to score 121, his 29th test century in 94 balls in his 95th test match, equalling don bradman's world record. he also passed 8000 test runs in the innings, and was personally honoured by indira gandhi, the prime minister of india at the ground. the match was drawn. gavaskar's 90 in the third test at ahmedabad saw him pass geoff boycott's test world record of 8114 career runs, but was insufficient to prevent another defeat. during the fifth test in the series, india were defeated by an innings at calcutta to concede a 3 0 series lead. india had won only one of their 32 most recent tests and none of their last 28. the bengali crowd singled out the marathi gavaskar, who had made a golden duck and 20. angry spectators pelted objects onto the playing arena and clashed with police, before stoning the team bus. in the sixth test in madras, he compiled his 30th test century in his 99th test match, with an unbeaten 236 which was the highest test score by an indian. it was his 30th test century and third double century against the west indies,propelling him to overtake donald bradman's 29 test centuries record. he had aggregated 505 at 50.50 for the series.
with india having failed to win for 29 successive tests, kapil was sacked as captain and gavaskar resumed leadership at the start of the 1984 85 season. the two test tour of pakistan resulted in two further draws, with gavaskar compiling 120 runs at 40. the first test against england saw india break through for its first test victory in 32 matches. it proved to be a false dawn, with england squaring the series 1 1 in delhi before another controversial third test at eden gardens in calcutta. the hostile crowd watched as india batted for over two days to reach 7/437 after 203 overs. angry with the slow pace of india's innings, the crowd chanted "gavaskar down! gavaskar out!" blaming him for india' performance. the local police chief reportedly asked gavaskar to declare to placate the angry crowd. when gavaskar led his team onto the field, he was pelted with fruit. gavaskar vowed never to play at eden gardens again, and duly withdrew from the team for india's next fixture at the bengali capital two years later, ending his record of 106 consecutive tests. the match was drawn, but india conceded the series after losing the fourth. the series ended 1 2, and with a poor display of 140 runs at 17.5, gavaskar resigned, although he had already announced his intention to relinquish the leadership before the series. the change of captain improved the form of neither gavaskar nor india as they toured sri lanka for a three test series. india were embarrassed 1 0 by the test minnows, with gavaskar managing only 186 runs at 37.2.


== international farewelledit ==
in 1985 86, india toured australia, playing against a team in a poor form slump. india were unable to capitalise as all three tests were drawn, but gavaskar did. he scored an unbeaten 166 in the first test in adelaide and 172 in the third test in sydney, ending the series with 352 runs at 117.33. a three test tour of england saw him score only 185 runs at 30.83, which india won 2 0 despite his unproductivity. in 1986 87, gavaskar's final season in test cricket, india faced a long season of eleven home tests. against a team regarded as the worst to leave australian shores, gavaskar made 90 in the second innings of the first test in madras, giving india a chance to reach the target of 348, which ended in a tie. he scored 103 in the third test to end the series with 205 runs at 51.66. the first test against sri lanka in kanpur saw gavaskar's 34th and final test century of 176. he scored 74 and 5 in the next two tests as india won the three match series 2 0. the five test series against arch enemies pakistan was to be his last. gavaskar scored 91 in the drawn first test in madras before withdrawing from the second test in calcutta as he had promised. in the fourth test in ahmedabad, gavaskar's 63 made him the first batsman to pass 10,000 runs. with the teams locked 0 0 leading into the final test in bangalore, there was to be no fairytale. gavaskar was dismissed for 96 in the second innings as india were bowled out to give pakistan a 1 0 series win.


== styleedit ==
gavaskar was also a fine slip fielder and his safe catching in the slips helped him become the first indian (excluding wicket-keepers) to take over a hundred catches in test matches. in one odi against pakistan in sharjah in 1985, he took four catches and helped india defend a small total of 125. early in his test career, when india rarely used pace bowlers, gavaskar also opened the bowling for a short spell on occasions if only one pace bowler was playing, before a three-pronged spin attack took over. the only wicket claimed by him is that of pakistani zaheer abbas in 1978 79.
while gavaskar could not be described as an attacking batsman, he had the ability of keeping the scoreboard ticking with unique shots such as the "late flick". his focus of technical correctness over flair meant that his style of play was usually less suited to the shorter form of the game, at which he had less success. his infamous 36 not out in the 1975 world cup, carrying his bat through the full 60 overs against england, led indian supporters to storm the field and confront him for scoring so slowly when india needed nearly a run a ball to win; at the end of the game india had lost only three wickets but scored 200 runs less than england. gavaskar almost went through his career without scoring a one-day century. he managed his first (and only odi century) in the 1987 world cup, when he hit 103 not out against new zealand in his penultimate odi innings at vidarbha cricket association ground, nagpur.


== records and achievementsedit ==
gavaskar was the first test cricket player to make over 10,000 runs.
he held the record for the highest number of test centuries (34) before sachin tendulkar went past him in 2005. he broke donald bradman's record 29 test centuries going on to get 34.
he has the highest runs (774) maker by a debutant.
he has scored the most runs by any player in a series (774) against west indies.
he has the maximum no. of runs & centuries scored by a player against west indies   2749 runs & 13 centuries.
he is the only cricketer to score 4 consecutive centuries at 2 venues   port of spain & wankhede stadium.
he is the only cricketer with 58 century partnership with 18 different players.
he is a joint holder of the record for scoring centuries in both the test match innings on three separate occasions along with australia's ricky ponting.
he also became the first indian fielder (excluding wicket-keepers) to get over a hundred catches in test cricket.
he captained the national team on and off over a period between 1978 and 1985, which included a great 2   0 win over pakistan in 1979/80.
he was named one of the wisden cricketers of the year in 1980.
he has scored 127 not out in the faisalabad test in the year 1983 and became the ist indian to carry the bat in a test match.


== important statisticsedit ==
test debut: west indies v india at port of spain, 6 10 march 1971
last test: india v pakistan at bangalore, 13 17 march 1987
odi debut: england v india at leeds, 13 july 1974
last odi: india v england at bombay, 5 november 1987
first-class span: 1966 1987
first class debut: vazir sultan colt's xi v dungarpur xi at hyderabad, 1966/67
last first class match: rest of the world v m.c.c. at lord's, 1987
wisden cricketer of the year 1980
list a span: 1973 1988 
gavaskar's 100s in first class cricket. tests: 34, ranji trophy: 20, irani cup: 3, duleep trophy: 6, rest of the world against england (his last first class game): 1, county cricket for somerset: 2, other games: 15. sachin tendulkar equalled sunil gavaskar's record of first class 100s on 8 february 2013 


=== icc match referee recordsedit ===
test debut: west indies v england at kingston, 1st test, 1993/94
test appearances: 1
odi debut: west indies v england at bridgetown, 1st odi, 1993/94
latest odi: west indies v england at port-of-spain, 5th odi, 1993/94
odi appearances: 5


== outside cricketedit ==
gavaskar has also been awarded the padma bhushan. in december 1994 he was appointed the sheriff of mumbai, an honorary post, for a year. after retirement, he has been a popular, if sometimes controversial commentator, both on tv and in print. he has written four books on cricket   sunny days (autobiography), idols, runs n' ruins and one day wonders. he also served as an advisor to the india national cricket team during the home series against australia in 2004. he was the chairman of the icc cricket committee until the time he was forced to choose between commenting and being on the committee. he left the committee to continue his career as a broadcaster.
the board of control for cricket in india (bcci) named sunil gavaskar as the recipient of the col ck nayudu lifetime achievement award for cricket in india in 2012. gavaskar will receive the trophy, a citation and a cheque for rs 2.5 million at the bcci awards function.
the inaugural mansur ali khan pataudi memorial lecture was given by gavaskar on 20 february 2013 at taj coromandel, chennai.
the border-gavaskar trophy has been instituted in his (co-)honour.
gavaskar also tried his hand at acting on the silver screen. he played the lead role in the marathi movie "savli premachi". the movie did not receive much appreciation though. after many years he appeared in a guest role in a hindi movie "maalamaal". he has sung a marathi song "ya duniyemadhye thambayaala vel konala" which was written by noted marathi lyricist shantaram nandgaonkar. the song depicted the similarities between a cricket match and real life. it had become popular.


== controversiesedit ==
in a notorious odi performance in 1975, he opened the batting and managed just 36 (not out) off 174 balls (scoring just one four). replying to england's 334 from 60 overs, india managed only 132 for 3 from the 60 overs. it was printed in a local indian newspaper that,"england won but could not get gavaskar's wicket."(in hindi) which was mainly due to outside the leg stump bowling from english bowlers, which is considered wide in odi these days.
on 25 march 2008, malcolm speed, icc chief executive, told gavaskar "very clearly", during a meeting between the two at dubai, that he would have to quit his post at the icc if he failed to give up his job of commentator and newspaper columnist, in which capacity he has frequently criticised his employers and levelled serious accusations of racism. he sparked a controversy in early 2008 for his comments on the contentious sydney test match: "millions of indians want to know if it [match referee mike procter's verdict against harbhajan singh] was a 'white man' taking the 'white man's' word against that of the 'brown man'. quite simply, if there was no audio evidence, nor did the officials hear anything, then the charge did not stand." despite the fact that gavaskar's comment referenced mike procter and not the icc, australian writer gideon haigh said that, if gavaskar genuinely believed this, "then he should almost certainly resign, for if the icc is a bastion of 'white man's justice', gavaskar bears some of the blame for having failed to change it.he has recently been selected as the interim president of bcci replacing n. srinivasan"


== personal lifeedit ==
hailing from marathi speaking family.he is married to marshneill gavaskar (n e mehrotra), daughter of a leather industrialist in kanpur. their son rohan was also a cricketer who played 11 one day internationals for india, but could not cement his spot in the team.


== see alsoedit ==
list of international cricket centuries by sunil gavaskar


== referencesedit ==
brown, alex. "gavaskar slams 'white man' ban." the age, 14 january 2008.
haigh, gideon. "gavaskar's double role." cricinfo. 15 january 2008. (retrieved 22 november 2008).


== notesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
player profile: sunil gavaskar from espncricinfo
player profile: sunil gavaskar from cricketarchive
rediff page on sunil gavaskar
times of india article   d y patil university to honour gavaskar with doctorate

abdul rashid salim salman khan (born 27 december 1965) better known as salman khan (pronunciation : [s l ma n  xa n];) is an indian film actor, producer and television personality. referred to in the media as "the tiger of bollywood", "blockbuster khan", "box-office king", he is popularly called as "bhaijaan" and "sallu" by his fans. described by the cnn as one of the world's biggest stars, he has a significant following in asia and the indian diaspora worldwide. he is cited in the media as one of the most popular, influential and commercially successful actors of hindi cinema.
the son of screenwriter salim, khan began his acting career with a supporting role in biwi ho to aisi (1988) and achieved breakthrough with a leading role in his next release   sooraj barjatya's romance maine pyar kiya (1989). khan went on to establish himself in bollywood in the 1990s with roles in several top-grossing productions, including the romantic drama hum aapke hain koun..! (1994), the action thriller karan arjun (1995), the comedy biwi no.1 (1999), and the family drama hum saath-saath hain (1999). for his role in karan johar's romantic drama kuch kuch hota hai (1998), khan was awarded the filmfare award for best supporting actor. after a brief period of decline in the 2000s, khan achieved greater stardom in the 2010s by playing the lead role in several successful action films, including dabangg (2010), bodyguard (2011), ek tha tiger (2012), kick (2014) and bajrangi bhaijaan (2015). eight of the films he has acted in, have accumulated gross earnings of over  1 billion (us$15 million), and he has starred in the highest-grossing bollywood films of nine separate years which is a bollywood record. for his contributions to film, the government of india honoured him with the 2008 - rajiv gandhi award for outstanding achievement in entertainment.
in addition to his acting career, khan is a stage performer and an active humanitarian through his charity organisation being human with his brother sooban ahmad khan. khan's off-screen life is marred by controversy and legal troubles. his tumultuous relationship with aishwarya rai, hunting of endangered species, and a negligent driving case in which he ran over five people with his car, killing one, have been extensively covered by the indian media. for the last of these, khan was sentenced to a five-year imprisonment in 2015.
salman khan was ranked 7th in forbes's first global list of highest-paid actor in the world with usd 33.5 million, earning more than hollywood actors like dwayne the rock johnson, johnny depp, brad pitt and leonardo dicaprio. he regularly features in listings of the most influential people in indian culture, and in 2015 khan whizzed ahead of the us president barack obama in the list of the most admired personalities of india. in september 2015, a leading magazine declared him "the most attractive personality" in india.


== early life and backgroundedit ==

khan is the eldest son of screenwriter salim khan and his first wife sushila charak (later adopted the name salma khan). his paternal ancestors were pashtun from afghanistan who immigrated to indore, madhya pradesh. khan's mother is a hindu, whose father baldev singh charak comes from jammu-kashmir and mother comes from maharashtra. salman has stated that he is both hindu and muslim.
khan's stepmother is helen, a former actress, who co-starred with him in a few films. he has two brothers, arbaaz khan who is married to actress and vj malaika arora khan, and sohail khan; and two sisters, alvira khan agnihotri who is married to actor/director atul agnihotri and an adopted sister arpita khan .
salman finished his schooling at st. stanislaus high school in bandra, mumbai, as did his younger brothers arbaaz and sohail. earlier, he studied at the scindia school, gwalior for a few years along with younger brother arbaaz. he attended elphinstone college and dropped out after the second year.


== careeredit ==


=== 1989 93: debut and breakthroughedit ===
salman khan made his acting debut with a supporting role in the 1988 film biwi ho to aisi in which his voice was dubbed by someone else. his first leading role in a bollywood movie was in sooraj r. barjatya's romantic family drama maine pyar kiya (1989), one of india's highest grossing films. it earned him his first nomination for a best actor at filmfare, but the much expected filmfare award for best male debut was awarded to sooraj barjatya.
later filmfare rectified their mistake by presenting the same award after 15 long years. maine pyar kiya was later dubbed in english as when love calls, a 125-minute version, was the biggest hit in the caribbean market at guyana and also dominated the box-office collections in trinidad and tobago. maine pyar kiya had also been dubbed in spanish as te amo, the first experiment of its kind. this 125-minute film also proved its universal appeal with a glorious 10-week premiere run at lima, capital of peru. in telugu as prema paavuraalu, it crossed 25 weeks at visakhapatnam and had 100 plus day run at six centres in andhra pradesh. it was also dubbed in tamil as kaadhal oru kavithai and in malayalam as ina praavukal.
1990 saw one film release starring khan, baaghi: a rebel for love, a box office success, followed by three moderately successful films in 1991, patthar ke phool, sanam bewafa, and kurbaan. in the same year, khan co-starred with sanjay dutt and madhuri dixit in the romance drama film saajan. the movie was a critical and financial success. despite these early successes, nearly all of his 1992 1993 releases resulted in box office failures.


=== 1994 2009: hum aapke hain koun..!! and other filmsedit ===
khan returned to success in 1994 with his second collaboration with director sooraj barjatya in the romance hum aapke hain koun..! co-starring madhuri dixit. during the 1995 awards season, the film won 3 filmfare awards for the best film, best director and best actress. it also won the national award for being the most popular film of the year. earning over  1.35 billion (us$20 million) worldwide, the film became the biggest bollywood hit of the year, as well as one of the biggest bollywood hits ever. it is one of the films on box office india's list of "biggest blockbusters ever in hindi cinema". this film was the biggest hit of that year, and turned out to be one of bollywood's highest-grossing films ever, becoming the fourth-highest earner of all time. the film broke all the previous records and maintained itself as the highest-grossing bollywood film throughout history for 7 years. in 1995 he starred in rakesh roshan's karan arjun alongside shahrukh khan, karan arjun is a mix of an upbeat bollywood musical, religious overtones and an action movie. the film was released on 13 january 1995. the two played brothers who are reincarnated after being killed by family enemies. the film was the second biggest hit of the year, and his role of karan once again put his name among the nominees for the best actor award for filmfare awards.
in 1996, khan performed in two movies, sanjay leela bhansali's directional debut khamoshi: the musical, a box office failure but critically acclaimed and raj kanwar's action hit jeet. he had two releases in 1997: judwaa and auzaar. the former was a comedy directed by david dhawan where he played a dual role of twins separated at birth was a commercial success while later, an action thriller was "below average".
khan worked in five different films in 1998, his first release being the romantic comedy film pyaar kiya to darna kya opposite kajol, one of the biggest commercial successes of that year. this was followed by the moderately successful drama jab pyaar kisise hota hai where khan played a young man who has to take a child who claims to be his son, under his custody. khan's performance in the film earned him several positive notices and favourable reviews from critics. he rounded of the year with an extended cameo in karan johar's directorial debut, kuch kuch hota hai for which he earned a second filmfare award under the best supporting actor category.
in 1999, khan starred in three films: hum saath-saath hain: we stand united and biwi no.1, both were the highest grossing films that year and hum dil de chuke sanam alongside aishwarya rai and ajay devgan, which earned another him best actor nomination at the filmfare awards. the film was a critical and commercial success along with its music.
in 2000, khan acted in films including har dil jo pyar karega and chori chori chupke chupke, which addressed the issue of surrogate childbirth; khan played the role of a rich industrialist, who hires a surrogate mother after his wife becomes infertile. critics noted his turn towards a more serious role, which reportedly had more substance in comparison to his previous roles. in 2002 he starred in the delayed release hum tumhare hain sanam.
for tere naam, (2003) taran adarsh said of him, "salman khan is exceptional in a role that fits him to the t. he breathes fire in sequences that demand uneasiness. but beneath the tough exterior lies a vulnerable person and this facet in particular comes to the fore in the latter reels. his emotional outbursts are splendid..." tere naam is to date considered salman khan's best film with critically acclaimed performance. he subsequently continued his success at the box office, with comedies like mujhse shaadi karogi (2004) and no entry (2005). khan's work in 2006 included jaan-e-mann and baabul, however neither of these films were successful in the box office.
khan started 2007 with the ensemble film salaam e ishq. his next release partner did very well at the box office, receiving a blockbuster verdict. he next appeared in the hollywood movie, marigold: an adventure in india which told the love story of an indian man and an american woman. khan starred in three films throughout 2008, all of which underperformed.
khan hosted the second season of 10 ka dum in year 2009 which turned out to be even more successful than his first season as host of the game show in year 2008. the show got very high trps for sony entertainment television and according to reports, the show helped sony tv regain its third position in the indian television ratings.


=== 2009 present: commercial successedit ===
2009 marked a significant turning point in khan's career. starting with wanted, directed by choreographer turned director prabhu deva became a box office success and earned superhit status. in the same year, he appeared in two other films, main aurr mrs khanna and london dreams. london dreams did average business due to the uninspiring music, but main aurr mrs khanna was a commercial failure. khan's first release of 2010 was anil sharma's commercially and critically unsuccessful film veer.

his next release, dabangg was released on eid, 10 september 2010. khan played the role of a fearless cop with comic effect in the film. it opened to generally positive reviews and broke several box-office records upon release. the film set another box office record, grossing  808.7 million in its first week, thus becoming the highest opening week grossing bollywood film, overtaking the previous record of 3 idiots. dabangg went on to gross  2.15 billion worldwide and box office india declared it an all-time blockbuster in the second week of its release. it is the highest-grossing bollywood film of 2010 and, as of 2012, the fourth highest grossing bollywood film of all time. dabangg went on to win several awards, including the national film award for best popular film providing wholesome entertainment. it was later remade in tamil and telugu, the film was produced by his brother arbaaz khan, and released on 10 september 2010. it made a record opening at the box office and box office india declared it an all-time blockbuster. dabangg at that time was the second and now the fourth highest-grossing bollywood film and for his performance, khan received a star screen award for best actor and a stardust award for star of the year   male and was nominated for his sixth filmfare award for best actor. anupama chopra from ndtv wrote about his performance, "it's the role of a lifetime and salman khan bites into it like a starving man devours a feast. he inhabits it fully, strutting and swaggering and even, spoofing himself."
khan's first release of 2011 was ready. upon release, ready became the second highest opening day grosser, as well as the second highest weekend grossing bollywood film at that time, after dabangg. it also held records for being the second highest grossing bollywood film of 2011. he next appeared in bodyguard, a remake of the 2010 malayalam film of the same name. the film was not well received by critics, though became a financial success, with a domestic total of 1,409.5 million (us$26 million) india's highest-earning film of the year.

khan's first release of 2012 was ek tha tiger where he starred opposite katrina kaif and act as indian spy. the film garnered positive to mixed reactions from critics whilst opening to extremely strong box office collections. the film went on to break the opening day box office record with a collection of  312.3 million (us$4.7 million) and became the second bollywood film to gross over  3 billion (us$45 million) worldwide behind only 3 idiots with an eventual gross of  3.1 billion (us$47 million). it marks his first association with yash raj films. the film also broke the record of opening weekend net gross (first 3 days of release), opening week net gross (first 7 days of release) and entered 100 crore club in just 5 days of release breaking salman khan's own record set by bodyguard in 7 days.
salman khan's second release of 2012 is dabangg 2 which is a sequel of his blockbuster dabangg under production of arbaaz khan. upon release, the film netted an excellent  192.1 million (us$2.9 million) on its opening day and became the biggest opener for a non-holiday friday in india, beating the previous record held by don 2. and collected  582.6 million (us$8.8 million), beating the previous three-day record set by ek tha tiger. dabangg 2 eventually emerged as a huge financial success with revenues of  2.5 billion (us$38 million) globally.
after year gap khan's first release of 2014 was jai ho which he starred opposite daisy shah. after five consecutive blockbuster, his first film performed average at box office despite making over 100 crore in india. his second release kick remake of telugu film has entered the club of rs. 200 crore in india on eid . he also sang the "hangover" song from the movie.
khan's first film of 2015, bajrangi bhaijaan, released on eid received positive reviews from critics and public and broke several box-office record upon release. the film it set all time weekend record to collected  1.02 billion (us$15 million) on its first weekend at domestic box office and became the eighth consecutive film of salman khan to gross over 100 crores. the film grossing  1.84 billion (us$28 million) on its first week beat previous record of pk. khan's first and become a second bollywood film after pk to enter 300 club. the film is currently second second highest-grossing bollywood films in india and worldwide with collection of over 600 crore. bajrangi bhaijaan crossed 300 crore in 20 days of its release and became the second highest grosser till date in india


== mentoredit ==
salman khan has mentored a number of aspiring bollywood actors. he has also been an inspiration for some bollywood actors like hrithik roshan and arjun kapoor to get into perfect shape. saawan kumar tak, the director of sanam bewafa was helped by khan as he worked saawan... the love season for free.
salman has recommended composers like himesh reshammiya and sajid wajid. he supported sanjay leela bhansali to make khamoshi: the musical and then hum dil de chuke sanam. actor govinda' s career was rescued by khan as he offered parallel role in partner. similarly it was salman khan who suggested mohnish bahl to sooraj barjatya for maine pyar kiya and later in baaghi: a rebel for love after his stinct as hero failed. bahl has also done important roles in salman's hum aapke hain koun..!, hum saath-saath hain and recently jai ho. similarly he was instrumental in getting ravi kishan, the role in tere naam.
salman is now reportedly mentoring rinzing, son of danny denzongpa, ali, son of raza murad and vaibhav anand, the son of late vijay anand for their bollywood launch. similarly aditya pancholi  s son sooraj pancholi and suneil shetty  s daughter athiya shetty was launched by salman in his production hero. he has also decided to offer sonu sood his role in the hindi remake of mahesh manjrekar s 2010 hit marathi movie shikshanachya aaicha gho who has lost many offers due to injury happened in ccl while playing. salman has decided to mentor his longtime loyal bodyguard shera s son as well. armaan kohli, who had a failed bollywood career is now playing a major role with khan in sooraj barjatya' s prem ratan dhan payo.


== productionedit ==
in 2011, he launched his own production company called skbh productions (salman khan being human productions). money which will be generated from film productions will be donated to being human. first film made under the banner was kids entertainer chillar party, which went on to win 3 national awards, for best children's film, best original screenplay and child artist's award . skbh productions next film will be shikshanachya aaicha gho remake directed by mahesh manjrekar.
in 2014, he launched another production house called skf (salman khan film). first film released under this banner was canadian film dr. cabbie. the film earned $350,452 on its opening day at the box office and dr. cabbie became the second highest-grossing film in canada. the next films under this banner are hero where he also sang title song hero by nikhil advani which starring newcomers suraj pancholi & athiya shetty and bajrangi bhaijaan by kabir khan starring salman khan himself with kareena kapoor & nawazuddin siddiqui.


== other workedit ==


=== televisionedit ===
in 2008 khan hosted 10 ka dum. the show was extremely popular and was at number one spot in ratings in india. it garnered an average tvr of 2.81 and a peak rating of 4.5, leaving behind shahrukh khan's kya aap paanchvi paas se tej hai? with an average rating of 1.37 tvr and a peak rating of 2.3 and hrithik roshan's junoon   kuch kar dikhane ka on ndtv imagine with an average tvr of 0.76 and a peak rating of 1.1 according to reports, the show helped sony tv regain its third position in the indian television ratings. he again hosted the show in 2009 and thus won the best anchor award for 10 ka dum in 2008 and 2009. in 2010 khan hosted bigg boss 4. the show was widely accepted and appreciated due to khan's hosting and surpassing the famous hosting of amitabh bachchan. according to data available with amap, a television viewership monitoring agency, the opening episode of bigg boss 4 on colors got a rating of 3.6. season 3 had average rating of 2.43 while bigg boss 1 and bigg boss 2 had average ratings of 1.96 and 2.03. while bigg boss 1 was anchored by arshad warsi, shilpa shetty hosted bigg boss 2 and amitabh bachchan for bigg boss 3. the grand finale episode on 8 january 2011, received a trp of 6.7, which was the highest among the finale of other indian reality shows such as kaun banega crorepati, rahul dulhaniya le jayega, masterchef and did  li l masters. due to high trp salman khan again hosted bigg boss 5 along with sanjay dutt in 2011 and because of huge acceptance also hosted bigg boss 6 and bigg boss 7 in 2012 and 2013 respectively. in 2013 khan hosted the star guild award for the first time. khan also hosted bigg boss 8.


=== brand endorsementsedit ===
salman khan was associated as a brand when he had done the advertisements for limca soft drink, hero honda bikes and double bull shirts, much before he entered film industry. even after he became a superstar, he never showed interest in promoting himself as a brand, but he was signed for thums up in 2002 and continued until its contract was over. later akshay kumar replaced khan. later he was the brand ambassador of soft drink mountain dew with whom he ended the contract in december 2010. and now he is once again promoting thums up. he has also become the brand ambassador for the travel website, yatra.com, which also made him a shareholder. he is also the face of the history channel and the new brand for suzuki motorcycles, previously he endorsed red tape shoes and now he is endorsing relaxo hawaii salman khan is also the brand ambassador of the detergent brand, wheel he has also appeared for chlormint, a brand of gum with his brother sohail khan. the actor has also done a jewellery brand, sangini with kareena kapoor apart from innerwear brand dixcy scott and tablet blackberry playbook. britannia' s tiger biscuits is the latest endorsement of salman. he is also the face of ranbaxy' s revital replacing yuvraj singh apart from these brands, he also has rotomac pen and sf sonic batteries endorsements now khan has been roped in as the brand ambassador of dubai-based fashion label splash khan has been signed as the brand ambassador for astral poly technik ltd, the leading manufacturers of plumbing and drainage systems in the country.


=== singingedit ===
salman khan has also sung few songs like:
chaandhi ki daal par sone ka mor - hello brother (1999)
hangover - kick (2014)
jumme ki raat - kick (2014)
tu hi tu har jagah - kick (2014)
main hoon hero tera - hero (2015)


== philanthropyedit ==

khan has been involved in several charities during his career. he has started an ngo called being human which sells t-shirts and other products online and in stores. a portion of the sales go to a worthy cause supporting the underprivileged. being human foundation is a registered charitable trust set up by salman khan for helping the cause of the underprivileged. in its early days, salman khan set up and funded the foundation using his own money. the foundation has two focus areas: education and healthcare. to increase the reach and corpus of the foundation, salman khan has undertaken initiatives such as being human art; being human merchandise; and being human gitanjali gold coins.
in 2011, he launched his own production company called skbh productions (salman khan being human productions). money which will be generated from film productions will be donated to being human. first film made under the banner was kids entertainer chillar party, which went on to win 3 national awards, for best children's film, best original screenplay and child artist's award .
in january 2012, khan offered to pay  4 million (us$60,000) for releasing around 400 prisoners from around 63 prisons in the state of uttar pradesh via his ngo. the prisoners had completed their term but due to economical reasons, they were unable to pay a legal fine for their charges.
in july 2015, khan offered to donate the profits of his most successful film bajrangi bhaijaan among the poor farmers all over india. film s producers salman khan and rockline venkatesh both have mutually decided to donate the profits of their film to them. film's director kabir khan and salman s sister alvira agnihotri met mahrashtra s revenue minister eknath khadse to discuss the same.


== personal lifeedit ==
he lives in galaxy apartments, bandra, mumbai. he also has a 150-acre plot in panvel, which has 3 bungalows, swimming pool and gym. khan is a dedicated bodybuilder. he has a 42-inch chest, 17-inch biceps and a 30-inch waist.
khan has never married and his relationships have been of keen interest to the media and his fans. in 1999, he began dating bollywood actress aishwarya rai; their relationship was often reported in the media until the couple separated in 2001. khan started dating actress katrina kaif but after years of speculations, kaif admitted in an interview in 2011 that she was in a serious relationship with salman khan for several years, which ended in 2010. sangeeta bijlani and somy ali were also in serious relationship with khan.
in august 2011, khan admitted he suffers from trigeminal neuralgia, a facial nerve disorder commonly known as the "suicide disease". in an interview, he said that he has been quietly suffering it for the past seven years, but now the pain has become unbearable. it has even affected his voice, making it much harsher.


== in popular mediaedit ==

in 2004 khan was ranked as 7th best looking man in world - people magazine, usa. in 2008 his lifelike wax statue was installed in london's madame tussauds museum and so in 2012 once again his another wax statue was installed in new york's madame tussauds museum. in 2010 people magazine, india declared him the sexiest man alive. in 2011, 2012 and 2013 he was declared times of india's most desirable man of #2, #1 and #3 respectivelty. in august 2013 he was declared as india's most searched celebrity online. khan topped forbes india charts for 2014, in terms of both fame and revenues. according to the forbes 2015 list of 'celebrity 100 : the world's top-paid entertainers 2015', khan was the highest ranked indian in 71st rank with earnings of $33.5 million.


== acting style and analysisedit ==
he is one of the most commercially successful movie stars of india. while reviewing his performance in tere naam, taran adarsh wrote, "salman khan is exceptional in a role that fits him to the t. he breathes fire in sequences that demand uneasiness. but beneath the tough exterior lies a vulnerable person and this facet in particular comes to the fore in the latter reels. his emotional outbursts are splendid...". adarsh also remarked that "wanted that it will run only on salman's star power." filmfare commenting about him says that "when it comes to a salman khan or a rajnikant film, their performance is not important. it s the audience performance that counts." he also received rave reviews for his portrayal of colorful cop chulbul pandey a.k.a. robinhood pandey in dabangg. anupama chopra of ndtv said, "it's the role of a lifetime and salman khan bites into it like a starving man devours a feast. he inhabits it fully, strutting and swaggering and even, spoofing himself." he has thus established himself as one of the leading actors in hindi cinema. in august 2012, he was voted no.3 "india's greatest actor" in ndtv poll.


== controversiesedit ==
khan has been the subject of several controversies, including certain legal troubles.


=== hit-and-run caseedit ===
on 28 september 2002, khan was arrested for rash and negligent driving after his car ran into a bakery in mumbai; one person who was sleeping on the pavement outside the bakery died and three others were injured in the mishap. charges of culpable homicide were laid against him, but later dropped. on 24 july 2013, he was formally charged with culpable homicide in the case, to which he pleaded not guilty.
on 6 may 2015, khan was found guilty of all charges in the case. the bombay sessions court concluded that salman khan was driving the car under the influence of alcohol causing the death of one and serious injury to four homeless persons. sessions judge dw deshpande convicted the actor for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and sentenced him to five years in prison. later on same day, bombay high court granted him interim bail till 8 may 2015, on which the court suspended his prison sentence until the final appeal hearing in july. his driver ashok singh, who had given the testimony that it was him who was driving the car at the time of accident, was charged with perjury for misguiding the court with false testimony and was arrested. the kidnapping and eventual death of prime witness police constable ravindra patil remains a mystery, with some suspecting the involvement of organized crime.


=== relationship with aishwarya raiedit ===
his relationship with actress aishwarya rai was a well publicized topic in the indian media. after their break-up in march 2002, rai accused him of harassing her. she claimed that khan had not been able to come to terms with their break-up and was hounding her; her parents lodged a complaint against him. in 2005, news outlets released what was said to be an illicit copy of a mobile phone call recorded in 2001 by the mumbai police. it appeared to be a call in which he threatened rai, in an effort to force her to appear at social events held by mumbai crime figures. the call featured boasts of connections to organised crime and derogatory comments about other actors. however, the alleged tape was tested in the government's forensic lab in chandigarh, which concluded that it was fake.


=== blackbuck hunting caseedit ===
on 17 february 2006, khan was sentenced to one year in prison for hunting the chinkara, an endangered species. the sentence was stayed by a higher court during appeal. on 10 april 2006, he was handed a five-year jail term and remanded to jodhpur jail until 13 april when he was granted bail. on 24 july 2012, rajasthan high court finalized charges against salman khan and his other colleagues in the endangered blackbuck killing case, paving way for start of the trial. on 9 july 2014, supreme court issued a notice to salman on rajasthan government's plea challenging the hc order suspending his conviction.


=== remarks about 26/11 attacksedit ===
on september 2010, khan was reported to have claimed during an interview to a pakistani channel that the 26/11 attacks got a lot of attention because the "elite" were targeted. during the interview the actor had said   "it was the elite that was targeted this time. five star hotels and stuff. so they panicked. then they got up and spoke about it. my question is why not before. attacks have happened in trains and small towns too, but no one talked about it so much." khan also said that pakistan was not to be blamed for it, and that the indian security forces had failed. khan's comments had drawn strong reactions from deputy chief minister of maharashtra chagan bhujbal, shiv sena, bjp and other political parties. the comments were also condemned by ujwal nikam, special prosecutor in the 26/11 trial. khan later apologized for his comments.


== filmography and awardsedit ==

khan has won or received nominations at the filmfare awards ceremony for the following films:


== see alsoedit ==

list of indian film actors
list of people from madhya pradesh


== referencesedit ==


== further readingedit ==
ghosh, biswadeep (2004). hall of fame: salman khan. mumbai: magna books. isbn 81-7809-249-2. 


== external linksedit ==
salman khan at the internet movie database
salman khan on facebook
salman khan on twitter

saina nehwal ( pronunciation  ; born 17 march 1990) is an indian badminton player who is currently ranked no.1 in the world by badminton world federation women's singles 2015. she is the first indian to win a medal in badminton at the olympics. she achieved this feat by winning the bronze medal at the london olympics 2012 on 4 august 2012. she is also the first indian after prakash padukone and the first indian woman to become world number 1. besides these, she is the first indian to win the world junior badminton championships and was also the first indian to win a super series tournament, by clinching the indonesia open on 21 june 2009. saina is supported by the olympic gold quest.
saina was initially coached by s. m. arif a dronacharya award winner, and then by pullela gopichand till 2014 september. saina is the reigning indian national champion and is currently coached by the former indian badminton champion and national coach vimal kumar. saina nehwal plays for hyderabad hotshots in the indian badminton league. she won silver at 2015 bwf world championship becoming the first indian woman to do so.


== personal life ==
saina nehwal, second daughter of harvir singh and usha rani, was born in a hindu jat family at the university hospital of the chaudhary charan singh haryana agricultural university in hisar. her father worked in ccs hau she completed her first few years of schooling at campus school ccs hau, hisar. the family later shifted to hyderabad. nehwal also has a brown belt in karate. saina did her 10+2 from st.anns college mehdipatnam hyderabad.


== career ==


=== 2006-2009 ===
in 2006, saina became the under-19 national champion and created history by winning the prestigious asian satellite badminton tournament (india chapter) twice, becoming the first player to do so. in 2006, saina appeared on the global scene when she became the first indian woman to win a 4-star tournament, the philippines open. entering the tournament as the 86th seed, saina went on to stun several top seeded players including the then world number four xu huaiwen before defeating julia wong pei xian of malaysia for the title. the same year saina was also the runner up at the 2006 bwf world junior championships, where she lost a hard fought match against top seed chinese wang yihan. she did one better in the 2008 by becoming the first indian to win the world junior badminton championships by defeating ninth seeded japanese sayaka sato 21 9, 21 18.
she became the first indian woman to reach the quarter finals at the olympic games when she upset world number five and fourth seed wang chen of hong kong in a three-game thriller. in the quarter-finals saina lost a nail biting 3-gamer to world number 16 maria kristin yulianti. in september 2008, she won the yonex chinese taipei open 2008 beating lydia cheah li ya of malaysia 21 8 21 19. maria yulianti had earlier lost her quarter-final match to pia bernadet, saina's semi-final opponent, thus denying saina a rematch. saina was named "the most promising player" in 2008. she reached the world super series semifinals in the month of december 2008.
on 21 june 2009, she became the first indian to win a bwf super series title, the most prominent badminton series of the world by winning the indonesia open. she beat chinese wang lin in the final 12 21, 21 18, 21 9. saina on winning the tournament said, "i had been longing to win a super series tournament since my quarter final appearance at the olympics". saina is on the par with the likes of prakash padukone and her mentor pullela gopichand who both won the all england championships which are of similar status to the super series. in august 2009 she reached the quarterfinals of world championship losing to the second seed lin wang.


=== 2010 ===
saina successfully led the indian women team to the quarter-finals stage of the 2010 uber cup finals. saina became the first indian woman to reach the semi finals of 2010 all-england super series before losing to eventual champion tine rasmussen. top seeded saina reached the semifinals of yonex sunrise badminton asia championships 2010 losing out to unseeded eventual champion li xuerui of china. saina's coach gopichand advised her not exert too much pressure on herself due to the overwhelming home crowd support. saina wins the 2010 india open grand prix gold, beating wong mew choo of malaysia in the final and thus justifying her billing as top seed in the tournament. she won a prize money of $8,280 for winning this bwf grand prix gold tournament. nehwal, again seeded no.1 in the singapore open super series 2010, entered the finals defeating world champion lu lan of china. saina won the second super series title of her career by beating qualifier tai tzu-ying of chinese taipei in the final of the singapore open 21 18, 21 15. but the fact that she won the tournament in the absence of all the top 5 ranked players (who all happen to be chinese), takes a little sheen away from her path breaking victory. saina won a prize money of $15,000 for winning this bwf super series tournament. saina reached a career high of world no. 3 in the women's singles badminton world rankings on 24 june 2010. saina defended her indonesia open super series title in three tough games against sayaka sato of japan, 21 19 / 13 21 / 21 11.this is her third super series title and her third successive title following wins at indian open, singapore super series. she again won the top prize money of $18,750 for winning this bwf super series tournament. on 15 july 2010, with 64791.26 points saina nehwal reached a career high world ranking of no. 2 only behind wang yihan of china. 2nd seed saina, a tournament favourite, crashed out of the 2010 bwf world championships in paris after losing to 4th ranked chinese wang shixian in straight sets 8 21, 14 21. she although equalled her tournament best performance, as she was also a losing quarter-finalist in the last edition held in hyderabad. she subsequently dropped a spot to be no. 3 in the world rankings.
top seed saina, won the gold medal in the women's singles badminton event in the 2010 commonwealth games held in new delhi. she beat wong mew choo of malaysia 19 21 23 21 21 13. after her win saina said, "when i was a match-point down, it was like a shock. it was a big match and winning it means a lot to me. even many years from now, those present here will always remember how saina won the gold. it is a proud feeling". in the bwf super series ranking for the year 2010 (which only considers the performances of players in the elite world super series tournaments), as on 27 september 2010, saina has dropped to no. 7 from a high of no. 1 after giving a miss to 2010 china masters super series and 2010 japan super series due to her preparation for the 2010 commonwealth games. as on 5 dec 2010, for the first time in the year saina nehwal dropped out of the top 10 best performers in the 2010 bwf super series rankings.
saina nehwal confirmed her participation for the 2010 hong kong super series to held from 7 to 12 dec 2010 and is also the penultimate super series tournament of the year. this would be saina's first super series tournament after a gap of more than 5 months since her win in the 2010 indonesia super series in june 2010. on 12 december 2010, saina nehwal defeated wang shixian 15 21, 21 16, 21 17 in the final of the 2010 hong kong super series to win her fourth career super series title.


=== 2011 ===
4th seed saina nehwal crashed out of the 2011 korea open super series premier on 27 january 2011 in the 2nd round. she was defeated by the japanese sayaka sato in a tight 3 set match with score 17 21,21 19 and 21 11. 5th seed saina, was disappointed when she was defeated by eriko hirose of japan at 2011 all england super series premier on 11 march 2011. she was defeated in straight sets with a score of 21 11 and 22 20. it was her second early exit of the year after being defeated in korean premium super series earlier in january. one week later, on 17 march 2011, she met eriko hirose again (in the second round of the wilson badminton swiss open), but managed to win this time in three games 21 15, 17 21 and 21 11   on her birthday. 2nd seed saina nehwal beat ji hyun sung of south korea 21 13, 21 14 to win the swiss open grand prix gold badminton title on 20 march 2011. saina posed an early exit from the indian open super series in delhi. she disappointed the home crowd being defeated by ai goto of japan in straight games 21 17 and 21 19.
saina nehwal faltered after a good start as she lost to the then world number three wang xin of china in the finals to finish runner-up in the 2011 malaysian open grand prix gold tournament on 8 may 2011. saina nehwal participated in the 2011 bwf double star sudirman cup mixed team event, she won her first match against tzu ying tai of chinese taipei which was a tough three setter 21 10, 12 21 21 17, but india lost the tie 3 2. she was then shocked in her second match by current junior world champion & 16-year-old teen sensation ratchanok inthanon of thailand losing in straight sets 21 14, 22 20, but india managed to beat thailand 3 2 in the tie to book a spot in the quarterfinals of the elite mixed team event for the first time in the history of the tournament. in the quarterfinals against the mighty chinese, saina put up her best performance and beat the then world number two xin wang in straight sets 21 15, 21 11, but still the chinese managed to move into the semi finals with a 3 1 win over india. saina lost to li xuerui of china in the quarterfinals of the thailand open gp gold.
defending champion saina lost to cheng shao-chieh of chinese taipei in the second round of singapore open super series. saina, in her attempt to record a third straight win at the indonesia open super series premier, reached the finals where she lost to wang yihan of china to finish as runner-up, on 26 june. nehwal crashed out of world championship 2011 as she lost 15 21, 10 21 to world number 3 wang xin of china in a lop-sided women's singles match. saina, who reached the quarterfinals in the last two editions of the event, had to be contend with yet another last-eight finish. she lost in quarter finals of 2011 china masters super series against world no. 1 wang yihan of china in straight games 8 21, 12 21. saina lost in semi finals of 2011 japan super series against juliane schenk of germany in straight games 19 21, 10 21. in the 2011 denmark super series premier, she lost to 17-year-old teen tai tzu-ying of taiwan in straight games 19 21, 13 21 in the second round. saina repeated her shocking second round exit in the 2011 french super series as she lost to world no. 16 li xuerui of china in straight games 18 21, 29 30. saina lost in quarter finals of 2011 hong kong super series against world no. 7 tine baun of denmark in straight games 16 21, 15 21.
saina was defeated in the very first round of 2011 china open super series premier by world no. 8 bae youn-joo of south korea 21 15, 22 24, 15 21. during the season ending tournament in december, saina nehwal created history by becoming the first indian singles player to reach the final of bwf super series masters finals after defeating world no. 5 tine baun of denmark to cruise 21 17, 21 18 in the semifinals of the 2011 bwf super series masters finals in liuzhou (china). she went on to lose the final 21 18, 13 21, 13 21 against the world no. 1 chinese wang yihan in a contest lasting over an hour.


=== 2012-2013 ===
saina successfully did her swiss open title by defeating world no 2 wang shixian of china 21 19 21 16 on 18 march 2012, a day after she turned 22 years old. on 10 june 2012, saina defeated thailand s ratchanok inthanon 19 21 21 15 21 10, to lift the thailand open grand prix gold title.
on 17 june 2012, saina nehwal won the indonesia open super series by defeating world no. 3 li xuerui of china 13 21, 22 20 21 19. it was her 3rd indonesia open title. on 4 august 2012, she won the bronze medal at the london olympics when china's wang xin retired from the match after an injury with the match at 18 21, 0 1. on 21 october 2012, she won the denmark open super series premier after defeating wang yihan 21-12 12-7 in the semifinal. yihan got retired hurt in this match after losing first set and trailing in second set. in the final saina defeated juliane schenk of germany in two straight sets to lift her first denmark open trophy.


=== 2014 ===
on 26 january 2014 saina defeated world championship bronze medalist p.v. sindhu 21-14, 21-17 to win the women's singles of india open grand prix gold tournament. on march,2014 world no. 4 saina nehwal, who had a win-loss record of 4-2 against the chinese ace wang shixian, crashed out of the 2014 all england super series premier after losing her quarter-final match. saina took revenge of all england loss by defeating wang shixian in semifinals of 2014 australian super series. in final on june 29, 2014 saina defeated spain's carolina marin 21-18, 21-11 to win women's singles of 2014 australian super series. the win helped her to reach the ranking of world no. 7, climbing two spots.
she became the 1st indian woman to win the china open super series premier by beating japan's akane yamaguchi 21-12, 22-20 in the final.


=== 2015 ===
defending champion saina nehwal won the 2015 india open grand prix gold by defeating spain's carolina marin in the final. she became the first indian woman shuttler to reach the finals of all england open badminton championships, but lost to carolina in the final. on 29 march 2015, saina won her maiden women's singles title at the india open bwf super series beating ratchanok intanon of thailand. this assured her of becoming world number 1 when the latest bwf rankings were released on april 2. thus, she became the first indian women's player to be world no.1 in badminton. on 16th aug 2015, saina went down fighting to carolina marin again, in the final of world badminton championships held in jakarta, settling for the silver.


== achievements in singles ==


=== international titles (21) ===
     super series premier
     super series
     grand prix gold
     grand prix


=== international runners-up (7) ===
     bwf event (world championships or olympic games)
     super series premier or super series masters finals
     super series
     grand prix gold
     international challenge


=== international junior titles (3) ===
     bwf event (world junior championships)


=== international junior runners-up (1) ===
     bwf event (world junior championships)


=== national senior/junior titles (6) ===


== career overview ==


=== singles performance timeline ===


=== record against top ranked players ===
record against super series finalists, world championships semifinalists, and olympic quarterfinalists. (as of 8 march 2015)


== awards ==
arjuna award (2009)
rajiv gandhi khel ratna (2009 2010)
padma shri (2010)
for the bronze medal at the 2012 london olympics
 10 million (us$150,000) cash award from the haryana government.
 5 million (us$75,000) cash award from the rajasthan government.
 5 million (us$75,000) cash award from the andhra pradesh government.
 1 million (us$15,000) cash award from the badminton association of india.
honorary doctorate degree by mangalayatan university


== endorsements ==
in 2002, sports brand yonex offered to sponsor saina s kit. as her status and rankings improved, the sponsorships increased. in 2004, bpcl (bharat petroleum corporation limited) signed the rising star. she is one of the athletes supported by olympic gold quest. she is the brand ambassador of sahara india pariwar. saina endorses herbalife, top ramen noodles, fortune cooking oil, indian overseas bank, vaseline, sahara and yonex.
she had signed an endorsement deal worth rs. 400 million with the popular sports management firm rhiti sports in 2012. however, she severed this deal in 2013 and signed up with kwan entertainment and marketing solutions for an undisclosed sum. she has a dedicated sporting range with the multinational sports goods manufacturer yonex, 4% of the profits of which goes to her. apart from endorsements, she has also been invited on popular indian television shows as a guest including satyamev jayate and comedy nights with kapil.


== see also ==
pullela gopichand
p. v. sindhu
badminton in india
india national badminton team


== references ==


== external links ==
follow saina nehwal on badmintonlink.com
saina nehwal profile and latest news at sportskeeda
interview with saina nehwal   "your call with saina nehwal" on ndtv http://www.ndtv.com/video/player/your-call/your-call-with-saina-nehwal/136852

smita patil (17 october 1955   13 december 1986) was an indian actress of film, television and theatre. regarded among the finest stage and film actresses of her times, patil appeared in over 80 hindi and marathi films in a career that spanned just over a decade. during her career, she received two national film awards and a filmfare award. she was the recipient of the padma shri, india's fourth-highest civilian honour in 1985.
patil graduated from the film and television institute of india in pune and made her film debut with shyam benegal's charandas chor (1975). she became one of the leading actresses of parallel cinema, a new wave movement in india cinema, though she also appeared in several mainstream movies throughout her career. her performances were often acclaimed, and her most notable roles include manthan (1977), bhumika (1977), aakrosh (1980), chakra (1981), chidambaram (1985) and mirch masala (1985).
apart from acting, patil was an active feminist (in a distinctly indian context) and a member of the women's centre in mumbai. she was deeply committed to the advancement of women's issues, and gave her endorsement to films which sought to explore the role of women in traditional indian society, their sexuality, and the changes facing the middle-class woman in an urban milieu.
patil was married to actor raj babbar. she died on 13 december 1986 at the age of 31 due to childbirth complications. over ten of her films were released after her death. her son prateik babbar is a film actor who made his debut in 2008.


== early lifeedit ==
smita patil was born in pune into a kunbi maratha family to a maharashtrian politician, shivajirao girdhar patil and social worker mother vidyatai patil, from shirpur town (village-bhatpure) of khandesh province of maharashtra state. she studied at renuka swaroop memorial high school in pune.
her first tryst with the camera was in the 1970s as a television newscaster for doordarshan, the indian government owned television service.


== careeredit ==
smita patil belongs to a generation of actresses, including shabana azmi and, like her, who are strongly associated with the radically political cinema of the 1970s. her work includes films with parallel cinema directors like shyam benegal, govind nihalani, satyajit ray (sadgati, 1981), g. aravindan (chidambaram, 1985) and mrinal sen as well as forays into the more commercial hindi film industry cinema of mumbai. patil was working as a tv news reader and was also an accomplished photographer when shyam benegal discovered her.
she was an alumna of the film and television institute of india, pune. in 1977, she won the national award for 'best actress' for her performance in the hindi film bhumika. in her films, patil's character often represents an intelligent femininity that stands in relief against the conventional background of male-dominated cinema (films like bhumika, umbartha, and bazaar). smita patil was a women's rights activist and became famous for her roles in films that portrayed women as capable and empowered.

"i remained committed to small cinema for about five years ... i refused all commercial offers. around 1977-78, the small cinema movement started picking up and they needed names. i was unceremoniously dropped from a couple of projects. this was a very subtle thing but it affected me a lot. i told myself that here i am and i have not bothered to make money. i have turned down big, commercial offers because of my commitment to small cinema and what have i got in return? if they want names i'll make a name for myself. so i started and took whatever came my way."

in time she was accepted by commercial filmmakers and from raj khosla and ramesh sippy to b.r. chopra, they all agreed that she was "excellent." her fans, too, grew with her new-found stardom. patil's glamorous roles in her more commercial films   such as shakti and namak halaal   revealed the permeable boundaries between "serious" cinema and "hindi cinema" masala in the hindi film industry. in 1984, she served as a jury member of the montreal world film festival.
her association with artistic cinema remained strong, however. her arguably greatest (and unfortunately final) role came when smita re-teamed with ketan mehta to play the feisty and fiery sonbai in mirch masala (1987). smita won raves for playing a spirited spice-factory worker who stands up against a lecherous petty official. on the centenary of indian cinema in april 2013, forbes included her performance in the film on its list, "25 greatest acting performances of indian cinema".
according to film expert rajesh subramanian, during the making of chakra, smita patil visited slums in bombay as part of her research and it culminated in another national award.


== personal lifeedit ==
when she became romantically involved with actor raj babbar, patil drew severe criticism from her fans and the media, clouding her personal life and throwing her into the eye of a media storm. raj babbar left his wife nadira babbar to marry patil.


== death and legacyedit ==
smita died from childbirth complications on 13 december 1986, age 31, barely two weeks after having given birth to her son, prateik babbar.
nearly two decades later, one of india's greatest film directors, mrinal sen alleged that smita patil had died due to gross medical negligence.
in 2011, rediff.com listed her as the second-greatest actress of all time, behind nargis. according to suresh kohli from deccan herald, "smita patil was, perhaps, the most accomplished actress of hindi cinema. her oeuvre is outstanding, investing almost every portrayal with a powerhouse realistic performance."


== awards and nominationsedit ==


== filmographyedit ==


== government recognitionedit ==
on the occasion of 100 years of the indian cinema, a postage stamp bearing her face was released by india post to honour her on 3 may 2013.


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
smita patil at the internet movie database
raw stock, rare appeal: smita patil rediff.com

rajinikanth (born shivaji rao gaekwad 12 december 1950) is an indian film actor, media personality, and cultural icon. he began acting in plays while working in the bangalore transport service as a bus conductor. in 1973, he joined the madras film institute to pursue a diploma in acting. following his debut in k. balachander's tamil drama apoorva raagangal (1975), his acting career commenced with a brief phase of portraying antagonistic characters in tamil films. after establishing himself as a lead actor in a number of commercially successful films, he began to be referred to as a "superstar" and has since continued to hold a matin e idol status in the popular culture of tamil nadu. his mannerisms and stylised delivery of dialogue in films contribute to his mass popularity and appeal.
after earning  26 crore (equivalent to  43 crore or us$6.5 million in 2015) for his role in sivaji (2007), he was the highest paid actor in asia after jackie chan at the time. while working in other regional film industries of india, rajinikanth has also appeared in the cinemas of other nations, including that of the united states. as of 2014, rajinikanth has won six tamil nadu state film awards four best actor awards and two special awards for best actor and a filmfare best tamil actor award. in addition to acting, he has also worked as a producer and screenwriter. apart from his film career, he is also a philanthropist, spiritualist, and serves as an influence in dravidian politics. the government of india honoured him with the padma bhushan in 2000. at the 45th international film festival of india (2014), he was conferred with the "centenary award for indian film personality of the year".


== early lifeedit ==
rajinikanth was born on 12 december 1950, in a marathi family to his mother ramabai, a housewife, and ramoji rao gaekwad, a police constable, in bangalore, mysore state,   present day karnataka. he was named shivaji rao gaekwad after chhatrapati shivaji, a maratha warrior king, and was brought up speaking marathi and kannada. rajinikanth's ancestors hailed from a village called mavdi kade pathar,near jejuri a part of the purandar taluka of the present-day pune district, maharashtra. he is the youngest of four siblings in a family consisting of two elder brothers, satyanarayana rao & nageshwara rao and a sister, aswath balubhai. after his father's retirement from work in 1956, the family moved to the suburb of hanumantha nagar, bengalore and built a house there. when he was nine years old, he lost his mother.
at the age of six, rajinikanth was enrolled at the "gavipuram government kannada model primary school" where he had his primary education. as a child, he was studious and "mischievous" with a great interest in cricket, football and basketball. it was during this time his brother enrolled him at the ramakrishna math, a hindu monastery set up by ramakrishna mission. in the math, he was taught vedas, tradition and history which eventually instilled a sense of spirituality in him. in addition to spiritual lessons, he also began acting in plays at the math. his aspiration towards theatre grew at the math and was once given an opportunity to enact the role of ekalavya's friend from the hindu epic mahabharata. his performance in the play received praise from the audience and kannada poet d. r. bendre in particular. after sixth grade, rajinikanth was enrolled at the acharya pathasala public school and studied there till completion of his pre-university course. during his schooling at the acharya pathasala, he spent a lot of time acting in plays. in one such occasion, he performed the role of the villainous duryodhana in the play kurukshetra.
upon completion of his school education, rajinikanth continued to perform various jobs in the cities of bangalore and madras, including that of a coolie and carpenter, and finally ended up being recruited in the bangalore transport service (bts) as a bus conductor. he began to take part in stage plays after kannada playwright topi muniappa offered him a chance to act in one of his mythological plays. during the time, he came across an advertisement issued by the newly formed madras film institute which offered acting courses. though his family was not fully supportive of his decision to join the institute, his friend and co-worker raj bahadur motivated him to join the institute and financially supported him during this phase. during his stay at the institute, he was performing in a stage play and got noticed by tamil film director k. balachander. the director advised him to learn to speak tamil, a recommendation that rajinikanth quickly followed.


== acting careeredit ==


=== early career (1975 77)edit ===

rajinikanth began his cinematic career through the tamil film apoorva raagangal (1975). balachander gave rajinikanth a relatively small role as an abusive husband of srividya. the film was controversial upon release as it explored relationships between people with wide age differences. however, it received wide critical acclaim as it went on to win three national film awards including the award for the best tamil feature at the following year ceremony. a review from the hindu noted that, "newcomer rajinikanth is dignified and impressive". he followed that with katha sangama (1976), an experimental film made by puttanna kanagal in the new wave style. the film was a portmanteau of three short stories had rajinikanth playing a small character in the last segment where he appears as a village ruffian who rapes a blind woman in the absence of her husband. his next release was anthuleni katha, a telugu film directed by balachander. a remake of his own tamil film aval oru thodar kathai (1974), had rajinikanth playing a pivotal role for the first time in his career. in the subsequent films, he continued to perform a series of negative roles mostly as a womaniser. in moondru mudichu the first film to feature him in a prominent role he plays a character that "blithely row[s] away" when his friend drowns accidentally into the lake only to fulfill his desire to marry the former's girlfriend. his style of flipping the cigarette made him popular among the audience. his final release of the year baalu jenu, yet again saw him performing a role which troubles the female lead. he followed that with similar roles in avargal, and 16 vayadhinile. in 1977, he accepted his first-ever lead role in the telugu film chilakamma cheppindi. though rajinikanth always refers to k. balachander as his mentor, it was s. p. muthuraman who revamped his image. muthuraman first experimented with him in a positive role in bhuvana oru kelvikkuri (1977), as a failed lover in the first half of the film and a protagonist in the second half. the success of the film brought the duo together for 24 more films till the 1990s. the year saw rajinikanth playing supporting roles in majority of the films with few of them being "villainous". in gayathri he was cast as pornographer who secretly films his relationship with his wife without the knowledge of her, while in galate samsara he played the role of a married man who develops an affair with a cabaret dancer. all in all, he had 15 of his films released during the year, much higher than the previous years.


=== experimentation and breakthrough (1978 89)edit ===
in 1978, rajinikanth went on to star in 20 different films across tamil, telugu, and kannada. his first film of the year was p. madhavan's shankar salim simon. following that he was seen in the kannada film kiladi kittu co-starring vishnuvardhan, who was then a leading actor in kannada. his next release annadammula savaal saw him playing the second lead with krishna. rajinikanth had reprised his role in the kannada original. he then played an important role in aayiram jenmangal which was touted to be a supernatural thriller. he then appeared as a prime antagonist in maathu tappada maga, which happened to be his 25th release. bairavi released in the same year was the first tamil film to cast rajinikanth as a main hero directed by m.bhaskar. it was in this film he earned the sobriquet "superstar". s. thanu who was one of the film's distributor placed a cut-out of rajinikanth over a height of 35 feet (11 m). his next appearance ilamai oonjal aadukirathu, a quadrangular love story made by c. v. sridhar, saw him playing the role of a man who sacrifices his love for his friend, played by kamal haasan. the film's success prompted sridhar to remake the film in telugu and thus ended up directing vayasu pilichindi where the original cast in the tamil film was retained. his next film vanakkatukuriya kathaliye has an introductory song to mark his entry, a trend that would soon catch up with his later films. mullum malarum that released during the same period received critical acclaim. the film marked the directional debut of j. mahendran, had the screenplay adapted from a novel of the same name published in kalki. it eventually won the filmfare award for best tamil film and rajinikanth a special prize for best actor at the tamil nadu state film awards. following this, he made a foray into malayalam cinema through the fantasy film allauddinum albhutha vilakkum which was based on a story from arabian nights. the same year, he acted in dharma yuddam, in which he played a mentally-ill person taking revenge for his parents' death. he then co-starred with n. t. rama rao in tiger. with the completion of tiger, rajinikanth had acted in 50 films over a period of four years and spanning across four languages. some of the popular films that also released during this period are the youthful entertainer ninaithale inikkum, the tamil kannada bilingual priya, and the telugu film amma evarikkaina amma. priya, based on a detective novel by sujatha rangarajan had the distinction of being the first film of rajinikanth to be shot mostly outside india, mainly in southeast asia.

by 1980, he became a popular actor in the south indian cinema. during this phase of his career, rajinikanth abruptly chose to quit acting, but was coaxed back. he made a comeback with the tamil film billa, which was a remake of the bollywood film don (1978). it had rajinikanth playing dual roles and eventually became his first ever commercial success. his pairing with sridevi continued in johnny where he was once again cast in a double role. in 1981, he appeared in garjanai which was shot simultaneously in kannada and malayalam, making it his last film in those two languages till date. he also starred in murattu kaalai which was a commercial success. in k. balachander's first home production, netrikan, he performed dual roles as a womanising father and a responsible son. he acted in thillu mullu directed by k. balachander, which was rajinikanth's first full-length comedy. he agreed to it solely due to the strong suggestion by his mentor that he should do non-commercial roles, to break the stereotyped action-hero mould by which he was getting famous at the time. in 1982, he starred in pokkiri raja and thanikattu raja. moondru mugam had rajinikanth playing three roles for the first time.
in 1983, he starred in his first bollywood film, andha kanoon, alongside amitabh bachchan and hema malini. the film went on to become one of the highest grossing films of that time. his 1984 film, naan mahaan alla, was directed by muturaman and produced by k. balachander. he acted in his first cameo role in the film anbulla rajinikanth. he played a triple role in john jani janardhan. his performance in nallavanuku nallavan earned him a filmfare best tamil actor award. in his 100th film, sri raghavendra (1985), he played the hindu saint raghavendra swami. his major success in hindi films was his 101st film bewafai. in 1985, the film bewafai, with rajesh khanna as the lead hero and rajnikanth in negative role, released and became asuccess and grossed rs 11.95 crore at the box office that year.
in the second half of the 1980s, rajinikanth acted in commercially successful films like naan sigappu manithan (1985), padikkathavan (1985), mr. bharath (1986), velaikaran (1987), guru sishyan (1988) and dharmathin thalaivan (1988). in 1988, he made his only american film appearance in bloodstone, directed by dwight little, in which he played an english-speaking indian taxi driver. rajinikanth finished the decade with films including rajadhi raja, siva, raja chinna roja and mappillai while also starring in a few bollywood productions. raja chinna roja was the first indian film to feature live action and animation.


=== commercial stardom (1990 2001)edit ===

by the 1990s, rajinikanth established himself as a commercial entertainer. almost all the films released during this period were highly successful at the box office. he began the decade with panakkaran (1990). his stint with bollywood continued since the past decade as he went on to star in more hindi films. hum released in 1991 saw him doing the second main lead with amitabh bachchan became an inspiration for badsha. in 1991, he worked with mani ratnam in thalapathi, which was heavily inspired by the mahabharata. in which he co-starred with actor mammooty; the film dealt with the friendship between two unknown characters based on karna and duryodhana, respectively, and was set in a more contemporary milieu and was both critically acclaimed and successful upon release. he went on to appear in remakes of films from other languages, mostly from hindi and telugu. annamalai, which released in 1992, was yet another friendship centric film and was loosely based on the 1987 bollywood film khudgarz. mannan, directed by p. vasu, also became a box-office success. rajinikanth wrote his first screenplay for the film valli (1993), in which he also made a special appearance. he also starred in the film yejaman, in which he played the role of vaanavaraayan, a village chieftain. his romantic-comedy veera (1994) was controversial for its climax but went on to become one of the highest grossing films in 1994.
he joined hands with suresh krishna for baasha (1995), which emerged as an industry record, and is routinely touted by fans and critics alike as a major-hit, as the film elevated him from being just another very popular actor to nearly a demigod status among the masses. he made a cameo in peddarayudu for his friend mohan babu and also helped him in obtaining the remake rights. the same year, he acted in yet another gangster film, aatank hi aatank with aamir khan which was also his last hindi film in a major role till date. his film muthu was another commercial success, directed by k. s. ravikumar and produced by k. balachander, and became the first tamil film to be dubbed into japanese, as mutu: odoru maharaja. the film grossed a record us$1.6 million in japan in 1998 and was responsible for creating a large japanese fan-base for the actor. muthu  ' s success in japan led american news magazine newsweek to comment in a 1999 article that rajinikanth had "supplanted leonardo dicaprio as japan's trendiest heartthrob". during a visit to japan in 2006, indian prime minister manmohan singh acknowledged the success of muthu in the country during a speech, justifying the positive relationship between the two nations. he also entered bengali cinema through bhagya debata, which released at the end of 1995. 1997's arunachalam was another commercial success. rajinikanth released his last film of the millennium with padayappa (1999) which went on to become a blockbuster success. it starred ramya krishnan and soundarya, the former who was critically acclaimed for her performance. it was also the last, prominent role for veteran tamil actor sivaji ganesan.


=== struggles, resurgence and acclaim (2002 10)edit ===
after a brief gap, rajinikanth starred in baba in 2002, for which he had also written the screenplay. released with much fanfare and hype at the time, the film featured a story revolving around the reforming of a gangster, who is revealed to be the reincarnation of the hindu saint mahavatar babaji, and fights against political corruption. it fell short of market expectations and the high bids reportedly translated to heavy losses for the distributors. rajinikanth himself repaid the losses incurred by the distributors. the film was received with comments such as "the bloom was off the rose" and that "the gold does not glitter any more". pattali makkal katchi (pmk) leader s. ramadoss condemned him for smoking and posing with beedis in the film. he was criticised for spoiling the tamil youth by glorifying smoking and drinking. pmk volunteers attacked the theatres which screened the film and usurped film rolls and burnt it.
two years later, rajinikanth signed up for p. vasu's chandramukhi (2005), a remake of the malayalam film manichitrathazhu. upon release the film was highly successful at the box-office, and in 2007 it set the record of being the longest running tamil film. chandramukhi was also dubbed in turkish and german as der geisterj ger and released in the respective nations. following chandramukhi  ' s release, it was reported that avm productions were set to produce a film directed by shankar starring rajinikanth the largest collaboration yet for a tamil film. the film was titled sivaji and released in the summer of 2007, following two years of filming and production. it became the first tamil film to be charted as one of the "top-ten best films" of the united kingdom and south africa box-offices upon release. rajinikanth received a salary of  26 crore (equivalent to  43 crore or us$6.5 million in 2015), for his role in the film, which made him the second highest paid actor in asia after jackie chan. during the production of sivaji, soundarya rajinikanth announced her intention of producing a computer-generated imagery film starring an animated version of her father titled sultan: the warrior. the film was set for release in 2008, however it entered development hell and its development status would become unknown over the next few years.

he worked with p. vasu again for kuselan, remake of the malayalam film kadha parayumbol which was made simultaneously in telugu as kathanayakudu, in which rajinikanth played an extended cameo role as himself, a film star in the indian cinema, and as a best friend to the film's protagonist. according to rajinikanth, the film somewhat narrated his early life. the film, however, performed poorly at box offices and led to many distributors incurring major losses. rajinikanth also stated that he would work with pyramid saimira again to compensate for kuselan.

rajinikanth worked again with shankar for the science fiction film, enthiran. the film was released worldwide in 2010 as the most expensive indian film ever made, ultimately becoming the second highest-grossing film in india of its time. rajinikanth was paid a remuneration of  45 crore (equivalent to  61 crore or us$9.2 million in 2015) for the film. the film's success lead to the indian institute of management ahmedabad to use the film as a case study to analyze the business of cinema and its success story in a post-graduate elective management course called contemporary film industry: a business perspective. the course would also study muthu.


=== hospitalisation and return (2011 present)edit ===
in january 2011, rajinikanth was slated to appear in rana, a period film to be produced by soundarya rajinikanth and directed by k. s. ravikumar, who would work with the actor for a third time. during the principal photography of the film on 29 april 2011, he suffered a mild foodborne illness on the sets, which lead to vomiting, dehydration, and exhaustion. he was treated at st. isabel's hospital for a day before being discharged. five days later, he was rushed to the same hospital again after suffering from breathlessness and fever. he was diagnosed with bronchitis and was kept at the hospital for a week, while also spending a few days in an intensive care unit. several conflicting reports of discharge dates arose, as well as claims of rajinikanth's health deteriorating, which were continuously denied by latha rajinikanth. by this time, cnn-ibn reported that "rajinikanth dead" was one of the top trends on twitter and most searched term on google in india. two days after his last discharge, rajinikanth was admitted to the sri ramachandra medical college and research institute on 16 may 2011 for recurring respiratory and gastrointestinal problems. the hospital maintained that rajinikanth was in stable condition and showed positive response to treatment. it was widely reported that he required a kidney transplantation, which was later denied by dhanush. on 21 may 2011, aishwarya rajinikanth released a photo of her and rajinikanth in his hospital ward, both posing with a thumbs signal, responding to fans' negative reaction to news reports. the hospital restricted unauthorised visitors. rajinikanth's brother, sathyanarayana rao gaikwad, reported that the cause of the sudden illness was due to stress from rapid weight-loss and changes in diet, as well as withdrawal of alcohol consumption and smoking cessation. after addressing fans in a 4-minute digitally recorded voice message to the media, rajinikanth, under the advice of amitabh bachchan, travelled from chennai to singapore with his family on 21 may 2011, where he was to undergo further treatment for nephropathy at mount elizabeth hospital. after spending over two weeks at the hospital, he was finally discharged on 15 june 2011 and continued to recuperate in singapore, before returning to chennai on 13 july 2011.
despite several failed attempts to restart rana upon his return, rajinikanth reprised his enthiran character, chitti, in the bollywood science-fiction film ra.one (2011) in a guest appearance alongside shahrukh khan and kareena kapoor. in november 2011, it was decided that rana would be shelved to make way for a new project with rajinikanth, titled kochadaiiyaan. the motion capture film, which is the first of its kind in india, was released in 2014 to positive reviews. kochadaiiyaan, and the 3d release of sivaji in 2012, made rajinikanth the first indian actor to have appeared in four different forms of cinema: black-and-white, colour, 3d and motion capture. following the completion of kochadaiiyaan, rajinikanth began work in ravikumar's next directorial venture, titled lingaa alongside anushka shetty and sonakshi sinha. the film was released on 12 december 2014, coinciding with his birthday, and received mixed reviews from critics. rajinikanth's next film, a mob film titled kabali, was confirmed in may 2015 to be directed by pa. ranjith and produced by s. thanu. 


== image and influenceedit ==


=== cultureedit ===
rajinikanth has often been referred to as the most popular film actor in south india by the media and fans. his popularity has been attributed to "his uniquely styled dialogues and idiosyncrasies in films, as well as his political statements and philanthropy". many also cite reasons for rajinikanth's popularity as coming from his larger-than-life super-hero appearance in many films, supported by gravity-defying stunts and charismatic expressions, all while attempting to maintain modesty in real-life. almost every film of rajinikanth has punchlines delivered by him in an inimitable style, and these punchlines often have a message or even to warn the film's antagonists. these dialogues are usually fabricated to create new ones or even taken in a comical way, but do not fail to create a sense of entertainment among viewers. it is suggested by the media that actresses such as gouthami and nayanthara got their initial breakthrough after co-starring with rajinikanth very early in their careers, giving other aspiring actors the urge to work with him.
rajinikanth is also the only indian actor to be featured in the central board of secondary education (cbse) syllabus, in a lesson titled from bus conductor to superstar. after opening his first official twitter account in 2014, rajinikanth received over 210,000 followers within 24-hours, which according to the economic times was deemed by social media research firms as the fastest rate of followers for any indian celebrity, as well as among the top-10 in the world.
much like chuck norris facts, "rajinikanth facts" or "rajinikanth jokes" are widely circulated in text messages and memes over the internet. these satirical jokes have also inspired several mobile applications for ios and android.


=== politicsedit ===
critics, such as cho ramaswamy, have commented that rajinikanth has the potential to be successful in indian politics due to his popularity and fan base alone. in 1995, rajinikanth began supporting the indian national congress after meeting prime minister narasimha rao. an opinion poll conducted by the magazine kumudam predicted that congress with rajinikanth's support might win up to 130 seats in tamil nadu assembly. in 1996, when the congress party decided to align with all india anna dravida munnetra kazhagam (aiadmk) for the assembly election in tamil nadu, rajinikanth changed loyalties and supported dravida munnetra kazhagam (dmk)-tamil maanila congress (tmc) alliance. the tmc used a bicycle as their election symbol and used an image of rajinikanth riding a bicycle from the film annamalai in their posters. rajinikanth said, "even god cannot save tamil nadu if aiadmk returns to power." rajinikanth wholeheartedly supported the dmk and tmc alliance and asked the people of tamil nadu and his fans to vote for that alliance. this alliance had a complete victory in 1996. rajinikanth also supported the dmk-tmc alliance in the parliamentary election held the same year. later in 2004, rajinikanth said he would personally vote for the bharatiya janata party (bjp) but would not extend his support to any front during the upcoming indian general election. the party however failed to win any seats in tamil nadu in the lok sabha.
fans of rajinikanth in tamil nadu have continuously speculated his entry in politics, particularly to run for chief minister of the state. in 2008, a few fans in coimbatore launched a political party for rajinikanth, in an attempt to pressure his entry. the party was named the "desiya dravadar makkal munnetra kazhagam", with a dedicated party flag and symbol. after learning about this, rajinikanth submitted an open letter to the media, declaring that he had no connection with these events and requested fans not to indulge in such activities, warning that he would take legal action if they failed to adhere. he also mentioned that he was not interested in politics and thus, was only committed to working in films. he added that nobody can force him to enter politics, just as no one can stop him from entering it.


== personal lifeedit ==


=== familyedit ===
rajinikanth married latha rangachari, a student of ethiraj college for women, who interviewed him for her college magazine. the marriage took place on 26 february 1981, in tirupati, andhra pradesh. the couple have two daughters named aishwarya rajinikanth and soundarya rajinikanth. latha runs a school named "the ashram".
aishwarya married actor dhanush on 18 november 2004 and they have two sons, yathra and linga. his younger daughter, soundarya, works in the tamil film industry as a director, producer and graphic designer. she married industrialist ashwin ramkumar on 3 september 2010.


=== viewsedit ===
rajinikanth is a follower of hinduism, spiritualism, and a strong believer of spirituality. he is also a practitioner of yoga and meditation. rajinikanth has religiously visited major hindu temples prior to the release of each of his films; for instance he visited the tirumala venkateswara temple before the release of sivaji in 2007 and visited sathya sai baba at prasanthi nilayam in andhra pradesh before the release of kuselan the following year. he also occasionally leaves for pilgrimage to the himalayas. he has often referred to ramakrishna paramahamsa, swami satchidananda, ragavendra swami, mahavatar babaji, and ramana maharishi as his favourite spiritual leaders.


=== controversiesedit ===
in 2002, rajinikanth undertook a daylong fast to protest the government of karnataka's decision to not release kaveri river water into tamil nadu and announced that he would contribute  10 million (us$150,000) toward a plan to interlink indian rivers. he met with indian prime minister atal bihari vajpayee and many experts to canvass support for the project. his hunger strike was independent of the south indian film artistes' association (sifaa), who organised their own solidarity protest for the same cause. film director bharathi raja lashed out against rajinikanth, alleging him of dividing the film industry and saying that he was a "traitor who had a tacit understanding with the karnataka government".
in 2008, rajinikanth took part in a hunger strike organised by sifaa against karnataka's stance on the hogenakkal falls water dispute. in his speech, which was well received in tamil nadu, he warned leaders not to inflame the water project issue for political gains and requested that the issue should be resolved soon. he reprimanded politicians in karnataka and urged them "to speak the truth" to the public. "they cannot be fooled and will not remain silent if you continue to act in such manner," he stated. the speech led to vatal nagaraj, leader of the kannada nationalist group kannada chaluvali vatal paksha, demanding an apology from rajinikanth and threatening that he and his films would be boycotted from the state of karnataka. the threats were echoed by other pro-kannada organisations, such as the karnataka rakshana vedike. in a move to save the market of tamil cinema in karnataka and ensure welfare of tamil nadu-based filmmakers, rajinikanth apologised for his statements in a brief media appearance on tv9 kannada. he later thanked the kannada film industry for allowing the release of kuselan and lifting the ban the industry had briefly imposed on it. this led to strong reactions from sifaa members r. sarathkumar, sathyaraj and radha ravi, who called the apology a disgrace to tamils and opined that his speech never provoked the sentiments of the kannada people.
rajinikanth's support toward fellow actor ajith kumar, who in 2010 condemned the forceful inclusion of tamil cinema personae in political affairs, broke into a controversy.


=== philanthropyedit ===
according to naman ramachandran, the author of rajinikanth: the definitive biography, most of rajinikanth's philanthropic activities went unpublicised because he did not want them to be so. rajinikanth has given away half of his income to charities. in the 1980s, when superstitious beliefs prevented a majority of people from donating eyes, rajinikanth took the case of campaigning in support of corneal transplantation via television and public speeches. in 2011, rajinikanth announced his support for the anti-corruption movement led by gandhian anna hazare and offered his marriage hall, the raghavendra kalyana mandapam, in chennai free of cost for the india against corruption members to hold their fast. rajinikanth's fan associations regularly organise blood donation and eye donation camps and distribute food during his birthday.


== awards and honoursedit ==

rajinikanth has received numerous awards for many of his films mostly in tamil. he received his first filmfare award for best tamil actor in 1984 for nallavanuku nallavan. later he received filmfare award nominations for his performances in sivaji (2007) and enthiran (2010). as of 2014, rajinikanth has received six tamil nadu state film awards for his performances in various films. he also received numerous awards from cinema express and filmfans' association for his on-screen performances and off-screen contributions in writing and producing.
rajinikanth received the kalaimamani award in 1984 and the m. g. r. award in 1989, both from the government of tamil nadu. in 1995, the south indian film artistes' association presented him with the kalaichelvam award. he was named and honoured with the padma bhushan in 2000 from the government of india. he was selected as the indian entertainer of the year for 2007 by ndtv, competing against the likes of shahrukh khan. the government of maharashtra honoured him with the raj kapoor award the same year. he received the chevalier sivaji ganesan award for excellence in indian cinema at the 4th vijay awards. rajinikanth was also named one of the most influential persons in south asia by asiaweek. he was also named by forbes india as the most influential indian of the year 2010. in 2011, he was awarded the entertainer of the decade award by ndtv for the year 2010 by the then indian minister for home affairs p. chidambaram. in december 2013, he was honoured by ndtv as one among the "25 greatest global living legends". in 2014, he was presented with the "centenary award for indian film personality of the year" at the 45th international film festival of india held at goa.


== referencesedit ==

http://reelraja.com/tamil/kabali-first-look-posters/


== bibliographyedit ==


== further readingedit ==

a.n.prahlada rao, anp (2013). nanna daari vibhinna daari: rajanikanth kannada. nava bharat publication bangalore. p. 120. 


== external linksedit ==
rajinikanth at the internet movie database

manjul bhargava (born 8 august 1974) is a canadian-american mathematician. he is the r. brandon fradd professor of mathematics at princeton university, the stieltjes professor of number theory at leiden university, and also holds adjunct professorships at the tata institute of fundamental research, the indian institute of technology bombay, and the university of hyderabad. he is known primarily for his contributions to number theory.
bhargava was awarded the fields medal in 2014. according to the international mathematical union citation, he was awarded the prize "for developing powerful new methods in the geometry of numbers, which he applied to count rings of small rank and to bound the average rank of elliptic curves."


== education and career ==
bhargava was born in hamilton, ontario, canada of parents who had emigrated from india, and he grew up primarily in long island, new york. his mother, a mathematician at hofstra university, was his first mathematics teacher. he completed all of his high school math and computer science courses by age 14. he attended plainedge high school in north massapequa, and graduated in 1992 as the class valedictorian. he obtained his b.a. from harvard university in 1996. for his research as an undergraduate, he was awarded the 1996 morgan prize. bhargava went on to receive his doctorate from princeton in 2001, supervised by andrew wiles and funded by a hertz fellowship. he was a visiting scholar at the institute for advanced study in 2001-02, and at harvard university in 2002-03. princeton appointed him as a tenured full professor in 2003. he was appointed to the stieltjes chair in leiden university in 2010.
bhargava is also an accomplished tabla player, having studied under gurus such as zakir hussain. he also studied sanskrit from his grandfather purushottam lal bhargava, a well-known scholar of sanskrit and ancient indian history. he is an admirer of sanskrit poetry.


== contributions ==
his phd thesis generalized gauss's classical law for composition of binary quadratic forms to many other situations. one major use of his results is the parametrization of quartic and quintic orders in number fields, thus allowing the study of asymptotic behavior of arithmetic properties of these orders and fields.
his research also includes fundamental contributions to the representation theory of quadratic forms, to interpolation problems and p-adic analysis, to the study of ideal class groups of algebraic number fields, and to the arithmetic theory of elliptic curves. a short list of his specific mathematical contributions are:
fourteen new gauss-style composition laws.
determination of the asymptotic density of discriminants of quartic and quintic number fields.
proofs of the first known cases of the cohen-lenstra-martinet heuristics for class groups.
proof of the 15 theorem, including an extension of the theorem to other number sets such as the odd numbers and the prime numbers.
proof (with jonathan hanke) of the 290 theorem.
a novel generalization of the factorial function, resolving a decades-old conjecture by george p lya.
proof (with arul shankar) that the average rank of all elliptic curves over q (when ordered by height) is bounded.
in july 2010 manjul bhargava and arul shankar proved the birch and swinnerton-dyer conjecture for a positive proportion of elliptic curves.


== awards and honors ==
bhargava has won several awards for his research, the most prestigious being the fields medal, the highest award in the field of mathematics, which he won in 2014.
bhargava is the third youngest full professor in princeton university's history, after charles fefferman and andrew wiles.
in addition, he won the morgan prize and hertz fellowship in 1996, a clay 5-year research fellowship, the merten m. hasse prize from the maa in 2003, the clay research award in 2005, and the leonard m. and eleanor b. blumenthal award for the advancement of research in pure mathematics in 2005.
peter sarnak of princeton university has said of bhargava:
he was named one of popular science magazine s "brilliant 10" in november 2002. he won the $10,000 sastra ramanujan prize, shared with kannan soundararajan, awarded by sastra in 2005 at tanjavur, india, for his outstanding contributions to number theory.
in 2008, bhargava was awarded the american mathematical society's cole prize. the citation reads:
in 2011, bhargava was awarded the fermat prize for "various generalizations of the davenport-heilbronn estimates and for his startling recent results (with arul shankar) on the average rank of elliptic curves".
bhargava is also a sought-after speaker, having given numerous public lectures around the world. in 2011, he delivered the prestigious hedrick lectures of the maa in lexington, kentucky. he was also the 2011 simons lecturer at mit.
in 2012, bhargava was named an inaugural recipient of the simons investigator award, and became a fellow of the american mathematical society in its inaugural class of fellows.
bhargava was also awarded the 2012 infosys prize in mathematics for his "extraordinarily original work in algebraic number theory, which has revolutionized the way in which number fields and elliptic curves are counted".
in 2013, bhargava was elected to the national academy of sciences.
in 2014, bhargava was awarded the fields medal at the international congress of mathematicians in seoul for "developing powerful new methods in the geometry of numbers, which he applied to count rings of small rank and to bound the average rank of elliptic curves".
in 2015, bhargava was awarded the padma bhushan, the third highest civilian award of india.


== selected publications ==
bhargava, manjul (2000). "the factorial function and generalizations" (pdf). the american mathematical monthly 107 (9): 783 799. doi:10.2307/2695734. 
bhargava, manjul (2004). "higher composition laws i: a new view on gauss composition, and quadratic generalizations" (pdf). the annals of mathematics 159: 217 250. doi:10.4007/annals.2004.159.217. 
bhargava, manjul (2004). "higher composition laws ii: on cubic analogues of gauss composition" (pdf). the annals of mathematics 159 (2): 865 886. doi:10.4007/annals.2004.159.865. 
bhargava, manjul (2004). "higher composition laws iii: the parametrization of quartic rings" (pdf). the annals of mathematics 159 (3): 1329 1360. doi:10.4007/annals.2004.159.1329. 
bhargava, manjul (2005). "the density of discriminants of quartic rings and fields" (pdf). the annals of mathematics 162: 1031 1063. doi:10.4007/annals.2005.162.1031. 
bhargava, manjul (2008). "higher composition laws iv: the parametrization of quintic rings" (pdf). the annals of mathematics 167: 53 94. doi:10.4007/annals.2008.167.53. 
bhargava, manjul (2010). "the density of discriminants of quintic rings and fields" (pdf). the annals of mathematics 172: 1559 1591. doi:10.4007/annals.2010.172.1559. 
bhargava, manjul; satriano, matthew (2014). "on a notion of "galois closure" for extensions of rings". journal of the european mathematical society 16 (9): 1881 1913. arxiv:1006.2562v1. doi:10.4171/jems/478. mr 3273311. 
bhargava, manjul; shankar, arul (2015). "binary quartic forms having bounded invariants, and the boundedness of the average rank of elliptic curves". annals of mathematics 181 (1): 191 242. doi:10.4007/annals.2015.181.1.3. mr 3272925. 
bhargava, manjul; shankar, arul (2015). "ternary cubic forms having bounded invariants, and the existence of a positive proportion of elliptic curves having rank 0". annals of mathematics 181 (2): 587 621. arxiv:1007.0052. doi:10.4007/annals.2015.181.2.4. 


== see also ==
bhargava cube


== notes and references ==


== external links ==
manjul bhargava at princeton
manjul bhargava at npr
manjul bhargava at icts
article in the hindu on bhargava winning the sastra prize
princeton university article by steven schultz
manjul bhargava at the mathematics genealogy project

kamal haasan (born 7 november 1954) is an indian film actor, screenwriter, director, producer, playback singer, choreographer, lyricist, philanthropist and dancer who works primarily in the tamil film industry. haasan has won several indian film awards including four national film awards and 19 filmfare awards. with seven submissions, kamal haasan has starred in the highest number of films submitted by india for the academy award best foreign language film. haasan's production company, rajkamal international, has produced several of his films. kamal haasan received the kalaimamani award in 1979, the padma shri award in 1990 and the padma bhushan award in 2014.
after several projects as a child, haasan's breakthrough as a lead actor came in the 1975 drama apoorva raagangal, in which he played a rebellious youth in love with an older woman. he won his first national film award for his portrayal of a guileless schoolteacher who cares for a childlike amnesiac in moondram pirai (1983). haasan was noted for his performances in mani ratnam's crime film nayagan (1987), rated by time magazine as one of the best films in cinema history as well as shankar's vigilante film indian (1996) which saw him playing dual roles of a father and a son. since then he has appeared in a number of films including hey ram (2000), virumaandi (2004), vishwaroopam (2013) which were his own productions and dasavathaaram (2008) in which he played ten different roles.


== early lifeedit ==
kamal haasan was born into a tamil family. haasan's father, d. srinivasan was a lawyer. kamal is the youngest child in his family; his brothers charuhasan (born 1930) and chandrahasan (born 1936) are also lawyers, and charuhasan became an actor during the 1980s. haasan's sister, nalini (born 1946), is a classical dancer. he received his primary education in paramakudi, moving to madras (now chennai) as his brothers pursued their higher education. haasan continued his education in santhome, madras; attracted by film and the fine arts, he was encouraged by his father. when a physician friend of haasan's mother visited avichi meiyappa chettiar (avm) to treat his wife, she brought haasan with her. impressed by haasan's demeanor, m. saravanan (avm's son) recommended him for their upcoming production kalathur kannamma.


== careeredit ==


=== child actor (1959 1965)edit ===
haasan won best actor the president's gold medal   rashtrapathi award for his performance in kalathur kannamma at age four, and starred in five more films as a child. he debuted in the malayalam film industry in kannum karalum (1962). with his father's encouragement haasan joined a repertory company (t. k. s. nataka sabha) headed by t. k. shanmugam, continuing his education at the hindu higher secondary school in triplicane. his time with the theatre company shaped haasan's craft, and kindled his interest in makeup.


=== lead roles, 1970 1975edit ===
after a seven-year hiatus from films haasan returned to the industry as a crew member, playing a few supporting roles. his role as an adult was in the 1970 film maanavan, where he appeared in a dance sequence. haasan also had a supporting role in annai velankani (where he was assistant director), and appeared in k. balachander's 1973 film arangetram. he played the antagonist in sollathaan ninaikkiren and gumasthavin magal. haasan's first serious role was in k. balachander's aval oru thodar kathai (1974). his last supporting role was in pattikkaattu raja, in 1975.
haasan's second malayalam film was 1975's kanyakumari, for which he won his first regional filmfare award. other malayalam films were kanyakumari and raasaleela. he played the lead in the tamil film apoorva raagangal, directed by k. balachander (for which he won his first filmfare award in tamil). its plot involved a young man in love with an older woman, and the film won the national film award for best feature film in tamil. haasan learned to play the mridangam for his role.


=== late 1970sedit ===
in 1976, balachander cast haasan as a womaniser in manmadha leelai; this was followed by oru oodhappu kan simittugiradhu, which won him his second consecutive regional filmfare (tamil) best actor award. haasan later appeared in the balachander drama moondru mudichu. avargal (1977) concerned the women's movement; for this role, he learned ventriloquism. the film was remade in telugu as idi katha kaadu (1979), with haasan reprising his role. 16 vayathinile, in which he played a village bumpkin, won him a third consecutive best actor award. in 1977 haasan starred in his first kannada film, kokila, the directorial debut of friend and mentor balu mahendra. that year he also appeared in a bengali film, kabita, a remake of the tamil film aval oru thodar kathai. in 1978 haasan made his telugu film debut with a lead role in the cross-cultural romantic film, maro charithra, directed by balachander. his fourth consecutive filmfare award resulted from sigappu rojakkal, a thriller in which he played a psychopathic sexual killer.
in the 1978 telugu film sommokadidhi sokkadidhi, haasan played two parts. he also appeared in the musical ninaithale inikkum, a snake-horror film (neeya) and kalyanaraman. at the end of the 1970s he had a total of six regional best actor filmfare awards, including four consecutive best tamil actor awards.


=== bollywood (1980s)edit ===
haasan's films during the 1980s included 1980's tamil-language varumayin niram sigappu, in which he played an unemployed youth; he also made a cameo appearance in rajinikanth's 1981 thillu mullu. haasan made his bollywood debut in ek duuje ke liye, the remake of his telugu-language film maro charithra directed by k. balachander (which earned him his first filmfare hindi-language nomination). he made his 100th film appearance in 1981 in raja paarvai, debuting as a producer. despite the film's relatively poor box-office performance, his portrayal of a blind session violinist earned him a filmfare award. after a year of starring in commercial films, haasan won the first of three national awards for best actor for his portrayal of a schoolteacher caring for an amnesia patient in balu mahendra's moondram pirai, later reprising his role in the hindi version, sadma. during this period he focused on bollywood remakes of his tamil films, including yeh to kamaal ho gaya and zara si zindagi. in 1983 he appeared in sagara sangamam, directed by k. vishwanath. his portrayal of an alcoholic classical dancer won him his first nandi award for best actor and his second filmfare best telugu actor award.
after 1984's multistarrer raaj tilak, haasan appeared in saagar (released 1985), winning the filmfare best actor award and nominated for the best supporting actor award. the film was india's representative for the best foreign language oscar in 1985. he appeared in geraftaar and later featured in japanil kalyanaraman (a sequel to his 1979 kalyanaraman).
in 1986 haasan collaborated with k. vishwanath in swathi muthyam, playing an autistic person who tries to change society; it was india's entry for best foreign language film at the academy awards in 1986. these tollywood films found him a large audience in andhra pradesh, and many of his later tamil films were dubbed into telugu.
following punnagai mannan (in which he played two roles, including a satire of charlie chaplin as chaplin chellappa) and vetri vizha (where he played an amnesiac), haasan appeared in mani ratnam's 1987 film nayakan. he received his second indian national award for his performance; nayakan(inspired from hollywood movie the godfather ) was submitted by india as its entry for best foreign language film at the 1987 academy awards, and is on the time's all-time 100 movies list. in 1988 haasan appeared in his only silent film to date: pushpak, a black comedy. he appeared in unnal mudiyum thambi (a remake of the telugu film rudraveena), sathya(remake of hindi film arjun (1985 film)) in 1988 and apoorva sagodharargal in 1989. haasan played two parts in indrudu chandrudu, winning the filmfare best actor and nandi awards for his performance. he ended the decade with his last starring role in an original malayalam film to date, in chanakyan. by the end of the 1980s haasan was successful in the malayalam, kannada, telugu and hindi film industries, with filmfare awards in each industry and two national awards.


=== comedy (1990s)edit ===
in 1990, michael madhana kamarajan saw haasan build on apoorva sagodharargal by playing quadruplets. it began as a collaboration with writer crazy mohan for future comedy films. haasan won successive best actor awards for his portrayal of deranged, obsessive protagonists in guna and thevar magan (which was remade in hindi as 1997's virasat). he was credited with the story for the latter, and won his third national film award for best feature film in tamil as a producer. the film was india's submission for the academy awards that year. a series of films followed: singaravelan, maharasan, kalaignan, mahanadi, nammavar, and sathi leelavathi (based on the british film she-devil). the film (produced by haasan) featured haasan, kannada actor ramesh arvind and comedienne kovai sarala. he resumed his collaboration with kasinadhuni viswanath in the telugu film, subha sankalpam, and starred in the police story kuruthipunal (remake of govind nihlani's movie drohkaal ) with arjun sarja. haasan's success in the latter was followed by his third national film award for best actor for indian.
he became the first indian actor to get rs 1 crore as his remuneration for a single film in 1994. before him, it was rajesh khanna who was the highest paid indian actor from 1970 1987.
after indian haasan played a woman in the comedy avvai shanmughi (inspired by mrs. doubtfire), which was a box-office success. he chose shantanu sheorey to direct the hindi remake of avvai shanmughi, chachi 420, but after dissatisfaction with five days of shooting haasan took over as director. in 1997 haasan began directing an unfinished biopic of mohammed yusuf khan, marudhanayagam; a forty five minutes of film and a trailer was shot. marudhanayagam was expected to be the biggest, most expensive film in indian cinematic history and his magnum opus; a number of well-known actors and technicians had been signed, and it was launched at a public ceremony by queen elizabeth during her 1997 visit to india. although the film failed to materialise due to budget constraints, haasan expressed an interest in reviving the project. in 1998, he appeared in singeetham srinivasa rao's romantic comedy, kaathala kaathala opposite prabhu deva. the film was a commercial success and was also dubbed in hindi as mirch masala, which was never released.


=== 2000 presentedit ===
after a two-year hiatus from indian cinema, haasan decided against reviving marudhanayagam. he directed his second film, hey ram, a period drama, told in flashback, with a fact-based plot centering around the partition of india and the assassination of mahatma gandhi. haasan produced and choreographed the film, writing its screenplay and lyrics; it was india's submission for the academy awards that year. hey ram was a box-office failure in india (partly due to congress enforcing a ban on the film) but was successful worldwide. also in 2000, haasan appeared in the comedy thenali (inspired from hollywood movie what about bob?) as a sri lankan tamilian with ptsd who is under a psychiatrist's care. thenali, starring malayalam actor jayaram, was a box-office success. haasan's next film was 2001's aalavandhan, in which he played two roles: for one he had his head shaved and gained ten kilograms. to play the other army major in aalavandhan, he went to the nda for a crash course. the hindi version was distributed by shringar films. despite pre-release publicity, the film was a commercial failure and haasan repaid distributors who had lost money.
after a number of successful comedies (including pammal k. sambandam and panchathantiram (inspired from the hollywood movie very bad things) and guest appearances, haasan directed virumaandi, a film about capital punishment which won the best asian film award at the puchon international fantastic film festival. he also appeared in anbe sivam with madhavan. priyadarshan, its original director, left and sundar c. completed the film. anbe sivam tells the story of nallasivam, portrayed by haasan as a communist. his performance was praised by critics, with the hindu saying that he "has once again done tamil cinema proud".
in 2004 haasan appeared in vasool raja mbbs, a remake of bollywood's munnabhai mbbs, with sneha which was a box-office success. the following year, he wrote and starred in the comedy mumbai express. released during tamil new year with rajinikanth's chandramukhi and vijay's romantic comedy sachien, it was a disappointment at the box office despite positive reviews. in 2006 haasan's long-delayed project, the stylish police story vettaiyaadu vilaiyaadu, was a success. directed by gautham menon, the film is about a police officer sent to the us to investigate a series of medical murders. in 2008's dasavathaaram, he played ten roles; the film was released in a number of languages (including tamil, telugu and hindi) throughout india and overseas. dasavathaaram, written by haasan and director k. s. ravikumar, is one of the first modern science-fiction films made in india. starring haasan and asin thottumkal, it was the highest-grossing tamil film (as of 2008) and his performance was critically praised. in canada, dasavathaaram was the first tamil film distributed by walt disney pictures.
after dasavathaaram haasan directed a film tentatively titled marmayogi, which stalled after a year of pre-production. he then produced and starred in unnaipol oruvan, a remake of the bollywood film a wednesday, where he reprised the role originally played by naseeruddin shah with malayalam actor mohanlal playing anupam kher's role. it was released in telugu as eeenadu, with venkatesh reprising the role played by kher. both versions were critically acclaimed and commercially successful.
haasan collaborated for the fifth time with ravikumar in manmadan ambu, also writing the screenplay. the story concerns a man who hires a detective to find out if his fianc e is cheating on him. the film was released in december 2010 to mixed reviews, with behindwoods calling it "an entertainer, but in parts" and sify saying it "lacks the punch to captivate the audiences".
haasan's next film after manmadhan ambu was 2013's vishwaroopam, released in hindi as vishwaroop. it won two national film awards (best production design and best choreography) at the 60th national film awards. in may 2014, he was appointed as the official indian delegate to the 67th cannes film festival. as of july 2014, he was working on three films: uthama villain, vishwaroopam ii, the sequel of vishwaroopam and papanasam. after 2 years of vishwaroopam' s release, uttama villain was released on 2 may 2015 with exceptional critical reviews. haasan's upcoming film name is cheekati rajyam (telugu) aka thoonga vanam (tamil). in 3 july 2015 his film papanasam a tamil remake of malayalam film drishyam got released and met with positive reviews from everyone. after the blockbuster hit of the bollywood movie pk starring aamir khan, it was rumoured that kamal haasan was about to be casted in the tamil remake of the movie. but these rumours turned out to be fake.


=== off-screen contributionsedit ===
in addition to acting, haasan is noted for his involvement in other aspects of filmmaking. he has written many of his films, including raja paarvai, apoorva sagodharargal, michael madhana kamarajan, thevar magan, mahanadhi, hey ram, aalavandhan, anbe sivam, nala damayanthi, virumaandi, dasavathaaram, manmadhan ambu and vishwaroopam. haasan's production company (rajkamal international) has produced several of his films, and he directed chachi 420, hey ram, virumaandi and vishwaroopam. he considered directing full-time if hey ram was successful, but changed his mind when the film failed at the box office. in his earlier career, he has also choreographed for mgr in naan yen pirandhen, sivaji ganesan in savaale samaali and jayalalithaa in anbu thangai in 2010 haasan said he wanted to do more directing, since young actors wished to work for him. when he played supporting roles early in his career he wanted to become a technician, and joked: "film makers like k. balachander told me that i won't be able make much money by being a technician. so the end result is that the star kamal funds the technician kamal in pursuing his dreams". kamal attended workshops for makeup technicians in the us for several years, and trained as a makeup artist under michael westmore.
haasan has also written songs for his films. he wrote the lyrics for a single in hey ram, songs in virumaandi and unnaipol oruvan and the album for manmadhan ambu. haasan's musical work has been well received by his peers in tamil film. he is also a playback singer, singing in tamil, hindi, telugu, malayalam and english. currently haasan is part of the mission "clean india" set by the prime minister narendra modi. modi nominated 9 important vips to spread it to people via media or by their own example and one in nine people is kamal haasan who is chosen for his sincere work towards social welfare moves.


== personal lifeedit ==


=== familyedit ===

kamal haasan was born into a tamil iyengar family in the town of paramakudi, in the ramanathapuram district of tamil nadu, to criminal lawyer d. srinivasan and rajalakshmi a housewife. one source says that his parents originally named him parthasarathy and his mother always used to call him by that name. in an interview with karan thapar, haasan said his father was literate in sanskrit. kamal was the youngest of four children; his siblings are charuhasan, chandrahasan and nalini (raghu). his two older brothers followed their father's example and studied law.
haasan referred to his parents in unnaipol oruvan and the song "kallai mattum" in dasavathaaram. his oldest brother charuhasan, like kamal, is a national film award-winning actor who appeared in the kannada film tabarana kathe. charuhasan's daughter suhasini is also a national film award winner married to director (and fellow award-winner) mani ratnam, who collaborated with haasan on 1987's nayakan. chandrahasan has produced several of haasan's films and is an executive with rajkamal international. chandrahasan's daughter anu hasan has had supporting roles in several films, including suhasini's indira. haasan's sister, nalini raghu, is a dance teacher for whom he named an auditorium (nalini mahal). her son, gautham, played haasan's grandson in hey ram.


=== relationshipsedit ===

early in his career, he co-starred in several films with srividya. they were reported to have had an affair during the 1970s, and their relationship was explored in the 2008 malayalam film thirakkatha by renjith (with anoop menon as haasan and priyamani as srividya). haasan visited srividya when she was on her deathbed in 2006.
in 1978, at age 24, haasan married dancer vani ganapathy. they divorced ten years later.
haasan and the actress sarika began living together in 1988, marrying after the birth of their first child, shruti haasan (born 1986). shruti haasan is a singer and a tollywood-kollywood actress. their younger daughter, akshara (born 1991), was assistant director for 2013's vishwaroopam. sarika stopped acting soon after their marriage, replacing vani ganapathy as haasan's costume designer for hey ram. in 2002, the couple filed for divorce, which became final in 2004.
haasan's affair with co-star simran bagga (22 years younger than him) triggered the breakup. his relationship with simran (who appeared in pammal k. sambandam and panchathantiram) was brief, since simran married her childhood friend in late 2003. haasan has been living with former actress gouthami tadimalla (who starred with him in several films during the late 1980s and early 1990s) since 2005. shruti, akshara and gouthami's daughter subbalakshmi (from an annulled marriage) live with them.


=== viewsedit ===
kamal haasan is a self-proclaimed atheist. haasan has often questioned the existence of god and has highlighted the theme in his films like anbe sivam and dasavathaaram. he has been thought to be muslim because of his arabic-sounding name, most notably when he was denied preclearance by u.s. customs and border protection authorities at toronto pearson international airport in 2002. in sanskrit kamal means "lotus", but it was rumoured that his name originated with a friend of his father (yaakob hassan, a muslim freedom fighter who was imprisoned along with kamal's father by the british). in a bbc interview with karan thapar haasan said that his last name derives from the sanskrit word hasya, and although the yaakob hassan connection was publicised by the media it was only "a story". although he has abstained from politics, haasan is considered left-leaning or independent and has said that his politics would result in his death within a year.


=== humanitarian workedit ===

haasan is the first tamil actor to convert his fan clubs into welfare organisations and is involved in social-service activities through the clubs under the name kamal narpani iyakkam (kamal welfare association). his fan clubs help organise blood- and eye-donation drives, and donate educational materials to students.
haasan received the first abraham kovoor national award for his humanist activities and secular life in 2004. he was project ambassador for hridayaragam 2010, which raised funds for an orphanage for hiv/aids-affected children. in september 2010 haasan launched a children s cancer relief fund and gave roses to children with cancer at sri ramachandra university in porur, chennai. he has pledged his product-endorsement income to social causes. haasan won   5 million on neengalum vellalam oru kodi in march 2013 and promised that his prize money would be used for petral thaan pillaya, supporting children with hiv.
kamal haasan was nominated by the indian prime minister narendra modi for the swachh bharat campaign. he chose to clean the madambakkam lake in chennai with the environmentalist foundation of india's arun krishnamurthy on 7 november 2014.
known for refusing any kind of brand endorsement, haasan endorsed pothys for the first time in 2015. his daughter, shruti haasan has previously endorsed pothys. in the past, haasan has stated that should he ever act in commercials, the revenue earned from them would be donated to hiv affected children.


=== writingsedit ===
haasan publishes the magazine mayyam, by the kamal haasan welfare association (narpani iyakkam). his views on cinema, child and drug abuse, and the kashmir conflict have been published as thedi theerpom va (come, let's find and solve) by his fan club. haasan is also interested in tamil literature.


== awards and honoursedit ==

haasan received in 1990 the padma shri and in 2014 the padma bhushan for his contributions to indian cinema. at age six he won the president's gold medal for best child actor for his debut film, kalathur kannamma. haasan is tied with mammootty and amitabh bachchan for the most best actor national film awards with three. he won a national film award for best feature film in tamil for producing the 1992 tamil film, thevar magan. haasan has a record 19 filmfare awards in five languages; after his last award, in 2000, he wrote to the organisation requesting no further awards. in 2003, his films hey ram, pushpak, nayakan and kuruthipunal were showcased in the "director in focus" category at the rotterdam film festival. in 2004, virumaandi won the inaugural best asian film award at the puchon international fantastic film festival (pifan).
in 2005, sathyabama deemed university awarded haasan an honorary doctorate. he received the chevalier sivaji ganesan award for excellence in indian cinema at the inaugural vijay awards in 2006. haasan received the living legend award in 2007 from ficci. in 2010, the united progressive alliance government organised a retrospective of his films. union information and broadcasting minister ambika soni said the actor was unique, since his films broke regional and language barriers. that year, the government of kerala honoured him for 50 years in indian cinema during statewide onam celebrations in thiruvananthapuram.
haasan received the kalaimamani award from the government of tamil nadu in 1979. other honours include tamil nadu state film awards, nandi, screen and vijay awards, including four awards for his performance in dasavathaaram. in 2009 haasan was appointed chairman of the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry (ficci) media and entertainment business conclave, organised by ficci's entertainment division. he is on the academic advisory council for isfm (international school of film+media), and was the first indian actor invited aboard an american ship as a special friend of the us. in april 2013 haasan received an award on behalf of indian cinema from chris brown, executive vice-president for conventions and business operations of the national association of broadcasters, as part of the new york festivals international film & tv awards. he is one of 20 film celebrities recognised by coca-cola india with the launch of the 24th edition of the limca book of records in 2013.


== critique, professional and public perceptionedit ==
mani ratnam, who directed haasan in nayakan, has said that there are many things he can do that no other actor can. veteran tamil actor nagesh called haasan the best actor he had ever seen. haasan's contributions to film have been praised by his peers in the indian film industry, including sridevi, meena, amitabh bachchan, mohanlal, venkatesh, shah rukh khan and aamir khan. younger actors (suriya and madhavan) and filmmakers (bala, ameer and gautham menon) have been inspired by him. m. f. husain said haasan was the most exciting indian filmmaker-actor he had ever seen.
the animated action sequence in quentin tarantino's 2003 film, kill bill, was inspired by 2d animated sequences in an indian film believed to be aalavandhan. hollywood filmmaker barrie m. osburne called haasan's knowledge of literature, history and films "encyclopedic", and ang lee said he was stunned by his brilliance and knowledge of films.
kamal hassan has been alleged of plagiarism and inspiration from hollywood movies.     
haasan has been accused of self-indulgence and criticised for sexually explicit scenes and themes, offensive religious sentiments and superficiality about the social issues depicted in his films. other criticism includes complaints about his obsession with perfection, which may have caused some of his films to run over budget.


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
kamal haasan at the internet movie database

viswanathan "vishy" anand (born 11 december 1969) is an indian chess grandmaster and former world chess champion.
he held the fide world chess championship from 2000 to 2002, at a time when the world title was split. he became the undisputed world champion in 2007 and defended his title against vladimir kramnik in 2008. he then defended his title in the world chess championship 2010 against veselin topalov and in the world chess championship 2012 against boris gelfand. in the world chess championship 2013 he lost to challenger magnus carlsen and he lost again to carlsen in the world chess championship 2014.
anand is one of nine players in history to pass 2800 elo on the fide rating list. he occupied the number one position for 21 months, the 6th longest on record.
viswanathan anand became india's first grandmaster in 1988. he was also the first recipient of the rajiv gandhi khel ratna award in 1991 92, india's highest sporting honour. in 2007, he was awarded india's second highest civilian award, the padma vibhushan, making him the first sports person to receive the award.


== early lifeedit ==
viswanathan anand was born on 11 december 1969 at mayiladuthurai, tamil nadu . shortly thereafter, his family moved to madras (now chennai), where he grew up. his father, viswanathan iyer, is a retired general manager of southern railways, had studied in jamalpur bihar, and his mother susheela was a housewife and chess/film/club aficionado and an influential socialite.
anand is the youngest of 3 children. he is 11 years younger than his sister and 13 years younger than his brother. his elder brother, shivakumar is a manager at crompton greaves in india and his elder sister, anuradha, is a professor in the united states at the university of michigan.
anand learnt chess from age six from his mother and a close family friend named deepa ramakrishnan.
anand was educated at don bosco matriculation higher secondary school, egmore, chennai and holds a degree of bachelor of commerce from loyola college, chennai.


== personal lifeedit ==
in august 2010, anand joined the board of directors of olympic gold quest, a foundation for promoting and supporting india's elite sportspersons and potential young talent. on 24 december 2010 anand was guest of honour on the grounds of gujarat university, where 20,486 players created a new world record of simultaneous chess play at single venue.
his hobbies are reading, swimming, and listening to music. he is married to aruna anand and has a son born on 9 april 2011.
anand has been regarded as an unassuming person with a reputation for refraining from political and psychological ploys and instead focusing on his game. this has made him a well-liked figure throughout the chess world for two decades, evidenced by the fact that garry kasparov, vladimir kramnik, and magnus carlsen, of whom the former two were rivals for the world championship throughout anand's career, each aided him in preparing for the world chess championship 2010. anand is sometimes known as the "tiger of madras".
anand was the only sportsperson to have been invited for the dinner hosted by the indian pm manmohan singh for us president barack obama on 7 november 2010.
anand was denied an honorary doctorate from university of hyderabad because of confusion over his citizenship status; however, later kapil sibal, india's minister of human resource development apologised and said "there is no issue on the matter as anand has agreed to accept the degree at a convenient time depending on his availability". according to the hindu, anand finally declined to accept the doctorate.


== chess careeredit ==


=== early careeredit ===
anand's rise in the indian chess world was meteoric. national level success came early for him when he won the national sub-junior chess championship with a score of 9/9 in 1983 at the age of fourteen. he became the youngest indian to win the title of international master at the age of fifteen, in 1984. at the age of sixteen he became the national chess champion and won that title two more times. he played games at blitz speed. in 1987, he became the first indian to win the world junior chess championship. in 1988, at the age of eighteen, he became india's first grandmaster by winning the shakti finance international chess tournament held in coimbatore, india. he was awarded padma shri at the age of 18.

in the world chess championship 1993 cycle anand qualified for his first candidates tournament, winning his first match but narrowly losing his quarter-final match to anatoly karpov.
in 1994 95 anand and gata kamsky dominated the qualifying cycles for the rival fide and pca world championships. in the fide cycle (fide world chess championship 1996), anand lost his quarter-final match to kamsky after leading early. kamsky went on to lose the 1996 fide championship match against karpov.
in the 1995 pca cycle, anand won matches against oleg romanishin and michael adams without a loss, then avenged his fide loss by defeating gata kamsky in the candidates final. in 1995, he played the pca world chess championship 1995 against kasparov in new york city's world trade center. after an opening run of eight draws (a record for the opening of a world championship match), anand won game nine with a powerful exchange sacrifice, but then lost four of the next five. he lost the match 10  7 .
in the 1998 fide cycle, the reigning champion karpov was granted direct seeding by fide into the final against the winner of the seven-round single elimination candidates tournament. the psychological and physical advantage gained by karpov from this decision caused significant controversy, leading to the withdrawal of future world champion vladimir kramnik from the candidates tournament. anand won the candidates tournament, defeating michael adams in the final, and immediately faced a well-rested karpov for the championship. despite this tremendous disadvantage for anand, which he described as being "brought in a coffin" to play karpov, the regular match ended 3 3, which led to a rapid playoff, which karpov won 2 0. karpov thus remained the fide champion.


=== world chess championshipsedit ===


==== fide world champion 2000edit ====

after several near misses, anand won the fide world chess championship in 2000 for the first time after defeating alexei shirov 3  0  in the final match held at tehran, thereby becoming the first indian to win that title.
he failed to defend the title in 2002, losing in the semifinals to vassily ivanchuk. the 2002 fide world championship was ultimately won by ruslan ponomariov. anand tied for second with peter svidler in the fide world chess championship 2005 with 8  points out of 14 games, 1  points behind the winner, veselin topalov.


==== world champion 2007edit ====

in september 2007 anand became world champion again by winning that year's fide world championship tournament held in mexico city. he won the double round-robin tournament with a final score of 9 out of 14 points, a full point ahead of joint second-place finishers vladimir kramnik and boris gelfand.
in 2000, when anand won the fide world championship, there was also the rival "classical" world championship, held by kramnik. by 2007, the world championship had been reunified, so anand's victory in mexico city made him undisputed world chess champion. he became the first undisputed champion to win the title in a tournament, rather than in matchplay, since mikhail botvinnik in 1948.
in october 2007, anand said he liked the double round robin championship format (as used in the 2007 championship in mexico city), and that the right of kramnik to automatically challenge for the title was "ridiculous".


==== world champion 2008edit ====

anand convincingly defended the title against kramnik in the world chess championship 2008 held 14 29 october in bonn, germany. the winner was to be the first to score 6  points in the twelve-game match. anand won by scoring 6  points in 11 games, having won three of the first six games (two with the black pieces). after the tenth game, anand led 6 4 and needed only a draw in either of the last two games to win the match. in the eleventh game, kramnik played the najdorf variation of the sicilian defense. once the players traded queens, kramnik offered a draw after 24 moves since he had no winning chances in the endgame.

anand (2783)   kramnik (2772), wch bonn ger (11); 29 october 2008 (final game)
1.e4 c5 2.nf3 d6 3.d4 cxd4 4.nxd4 nf6 5.nc3 a6 6.bg5 e6 7.f4 qc7 8.bxf6 gxf6 9.f5 qc5 10.qd3 nc6 11.nb3 qe5 12.0-0-0 exf5 13.qe3 bg7 14.rd5 qe7 15.qg3 rg8 16.qf4 fxe4 17.nxe4 f5 18.nxd6+ kf8 19.nxc8 rxc8 20.kb1 qe1+ 21.nc1 ne7 22.qd2 qxd2 23.rxd2 bh6 24.rf2 be3    

responding to anand's win, garry kasparov said "a great result for anand and for chess. vishy deserved the win in every way and i'm very happy for him. it will not be easy for the younger generation to push him aside... anand out-prepared kramnik completely. in this way it reminded me of my match with kramnik in london 2000. like i was then, kramnik may have been very well prepared for this match, but we never saw it." in 2010 anand donated his gold medal to the charitable organisation "the foundation" to be auctioned off for the benefit of underprivileged children.


==== world champion 2010edit ====

before the world chess championship 2010 match with veselin topalov, anand, who had booked on the flight frankfurt sofia on 16 april, was stranded due to the cancellation of all flights following the volcano ash cloud from eyjafjallaj kull. anand asked for a three-day postponement, which the bulgarian organisers refused on 19 april. anand eventually reached sofia on 20 april, after a 40-hour road journey. consequently, the first game was delayed by one day.
the match consisted of 12 games. after 11 games the score was tied at 5  5 . anand won game 12 on the black side of a queen's gambit declined to win the match and retain the world championship. in game 12, after topalov's dubious 31st and 32nd moves, anand obtained a strong attack against topalov's relatively exposed king. topalov subsequently resigned.


==== world champion 2012edit ====

as a result of anand's victory in the world chess championship 2010, he defended his title in the world chess championship 2012; the location of the event was the tretyakov gallery in moscow. his opponent was boris gelfand, the winner of the 2011 candidates matches. after losing in the 7th game to gelfand, anand came back to win the 8th game in only 17 moves   the shortest game in world chess championship history. the match was tied 6 6 after regular games with one win each. anand won the rapid tie break 2  1  to win the match and retain his title. after the match, russian president vladimir putin greeted anand and gelfand by calling both to his official residence.


==== world championship 2013edit ====

anand lost the defence of his title in the world chess championship 2013 at chennai. the winner was magnus carlsen, the winner of the 2013 candidates tournament. the first four games were drawn, but carlsen won the fifth and sixth games back to back. the seventh and eighth games were drawn, while the ninth game was won by carlsen. on 22 november, the tenth game was drawn making carlsen the new world champion.


==== world championship 2014edit ====

anand won the double round-robin fide candidates tournament at khanty-mansiysk march 13 30 and earned a world championship rematch with magnus carlsen. anand went through the tournament undefeated, winning his first-round game against levon aronian, his third-round game against shakhriyar mamedyarov, and his ninth-round game against veselin topalov. he drew all his other games, including his twelfth-round game against dmitry andreikin, where anand agreed to a draw in a complex, but winning position. he faced carlsen in the world championship match in november, in sochi, russia. carlsen won the match 6.5 to 4.5 after eleven of twelve scheduled games.


=== fide world rapid chess champion 2003edit ===
in october 2003, the governing body of chess, fide, organised a rapid time control tournament in cap d'agde and billed it as the world rapid chess championship. each player had 25 minutes at the start of the game, with an additional ten seconds after each move. anand won this event ahead of ten of the other top twelve players in the world, beating kramnik in the final. his main recent titles in this category are at: corsica (six years in a row from 1999 through 2005), chess classic (nine years in a row from 2000 through 2008), leon 2005, eurotel 2002, fujitsu giants 2002 and the melody amber (five times, and he won the rapid portion of melody amber seven times). in the melody amber 2007, anand did not lose a single game in the rapid section, and scored 8 /11, two more than the runners-up, for a performance rating in the rapid section of 2939. in most tournament time control games that anand plays, he has more time left than his opponent at the end of the game. he lost on time in one game, to gata kamsky. otherwise, he took advantage of the rule allowing players in time trouble to use dashes instead of the move notation during the last four minutes only once, in the game anand versus svidler at the mtel masters 2006.


=== 2013edit ===
in the 2013 alekhine memorial tournament, held from 20 april to 1 may, anand finished third, with +2 1=6.


=== other resultsedit ===
anand won three consecutive advanced chess tournaments in leon, spain, after garry kasparov introduced this form of chess in 1998, and is widely recognised as the world's best advanced chess player, where humans may consult a computer to aid in their calculation of variations.
his game collection, my best games of chess, was published in the year 1998 and was updated in 2001.
anand's recent tournament successes include the corus chess tournament in 2006 (tied with veselin topalov), dortmund in 2004, and linares in 2007 and 2008. he has won the annual event monaco amber blindfold and rapid chess championships in years 1994, 1997, 2003, 2005 and 2006. he is the only player to have won five titles of the corus chess tournament. he is also the only player to win the blind and rapid sections of the amber tournament in the same year (twice: in 1997 and 2005). he is the first player to have achieved victories in each of the three big chess supertournaments: corus (1989, 1998, 2003, 2004, 2006), linares (1998, 2007, 2008), dortmund (1996, 2000, 2004).
in 2007 he won the grenkeleasing rapid championship, which he won for the tenth time defeating armenian gm levon aronian. incidentally, just a few days before aronian had defeated anand in the chess960 final.
in march 2007, anand won the linares chess tournament and it was widely believed that he would be ranked world no.1 in the fide elo rating list for april 2007. however, anand was placed no.2 in the initial list released because the linares result was not included. fide subsequently announced that the linares results would be included after all, making anand number one in the april 2007 list.
anand won the mainz 2008 supertournament championship by defeating rising star magnus carlsen, earning his eleventh title in that event.


=== ratingedit ===
in the april 2007 fide elo rating list, anand was ranked first in the world for the first time, and (as of july 2008) he held the number one spot in all ratings lists but one since then until july 2008, the exception being the january 2008 list, where he was rated no. 2 behind vladimir kramnik (equal rating, but kramnik held the no. 1 spot due to more games played). he dropped to no. 5 in the october 2008 list, the first time he had been outside the top 3 since july 1996.
in 2010, anand announced that he would expand his tournament schedule, beginning in late 2010, in an effort to regain the world number one ranking from magnus carlsen. he achieved that goal on 1 november 2010 list with a rating of 2804, two points ahead of magnus carlsen, but was once again overtaken by carlsen in july 2011.


== assessmentedit ==
lubomir kavalek describes anand as the most versatile world champion ever, pointing out that anand is the only player to have won the world chess championship in tournament, match, and knockout format, as well as rapid time controls.
in an interview in 2011, kramnik said about anand: "i always considered him to be a colossal talent, one of the greatest in the whole history of chess"; and "i think that in terms of play anand is in no way weaker than kasparov but he's simply a little lazy, relaxed and only focuses on matches. in the last 5 6 years he's made a qualitative leap that's made it possible to consider him one of the great chess players."
fide president kirsan ilyumzhinov commented that anand's victory in the 2014 candidates tournament "...proved that he is one of the strongest and greatest players of modern times."
in an interview in 2014 alexander grischuk said about anand: "i have to say that of all the players i ve played against anand has personally struck me as the strongest, of course after kasparov."


== head-to-head record versus selected grandmastersedit ==
(rapid, blitz and blindfold games not included; listed as +wins  losses =draws as of sep 29, 2015.)players who have been undisputed world champions in boldface


== notable tournament successesedit ==


=== rapid/exhibition tournamentsedit ===


=== classical tournamentsedit ===


=== matchesedit ===
1991 world chess championship candidates, madras, brussels quarter-finalist
1992 linares match anand vs vassily ivanchuk 5 3
1994-5 pca world championship candidates cycle, linares, las palmas won
1997 aegon man vs computers chess event (clock simultan vs 6 programs) won 4 2


== awardsedit ==
anand has received many national and international awards.


=== indian national honoursedit ===
arjuna award for outstanding indian sportsman in chess in 1985.
padma shri   fourth highest civilian award awarded by government of india in 1987.
the inaugural rajiv gandhi khel ratna award, india's highest sporting honour in the years 1991 1992.
padma bhushan   third highest civilian award awarded by government of india in 2000.
padma vibhushan   second highest civilian award awarded by government of india in 2007.


=== other honoursedit ===
national citizens award and soviet land nehru award in 1987
british chess federation "book of the year" award in 1998 for his book my best games of chess.
anand has won the chess oscar in 1997, 1998, 2003, 2004, 2007 and 2008. the chess oscar is awarded to the year's best player according to a worldwide poll of leading chess critics, writers, and journalists conducted by the russian chess magazine 64.
sportstar millennium award in 1998, from india's premier sports magazine for being the sportperson of the millennium.
"global strategist award" for mastering many formats of world chess championships by nasscom in 2011.
tamil nadu chief minister j. jayalalithaa honoured anand with a cheque of rs 2 crores, for winning the world chess championship for the fifth time.
in 2012, he received the "indian sportsperson of the year" and "indian of the year" awards.
in 2014 anand was awarded the russian order of friendship for the development of economic, scientific and cultural ties with russia. the order of friendship was awarded to viswanathan anand and boris gelfand, the participants in the fide world chess championship match that was held at the state tretyakov gallery in moscow in 2012.
in 2015 anand was honoured with the top country award at the spanish embassy, delhi on january 8.it is given to the eminent people of indian origin who helped to bring glory to both india and spain.
4538 vishyanand (provisional designation 1988 tp) is a main-belt minor planet. it was discovered by kenzo suzuki in toyota, aichi prefecture, japan, on october 10, 1988. 


== sample gameedit ==

on his way to winning the fide world chess championship in 2000, anand, playing white, defeated grandmaster viktor bologan (analysis by gm  ubom r ft  nik):

anand bologan, new delhi, 2000 world championship; ruy lopez, breyer (eco c95)1. e4 e5 2. nf3 nc6 3. bb5 a6 4. ba4 nf6 5. 0-0 be7 6. re1 b5 7. bb3 d6 8. c3 0-0 9. h3 nb8 10. d4 nbd7 11. nbd2 bb7 12. bc2 re8 13. nf1 bf8 14. ng3 c5 15. d5 c4 16. bg5 qc7 17. nf5 kh8 18. g4 ng8 19. qd2 nc5 20. be3 bc8 21. ng3 rb8 22. kg2 a5 23. a3 ne7 24. rh1 ng6 25. g5! b4!?
anand has a strong kingside attack, so bologan seeks counterplay with the sacrifice of a pawn.
26. axb4 axb4 27. cxb4 na6 28. ra4 nf4+ 29. bxf4 exf4 30. nh5 qb6 31. qxf4 nxb4 32. bb1 rb7 33. ra3 rc7 34. rd1 na6 35. nd4 qxb2 36. rg3 c3 (see diagram) 37. nf6!! re5
if 37...gxf6, 38.gxf6 h6 39.rg1! qd2! 40.qh4 leaves white with an irresistible initiative.
38. g6! fxg6 39. nd7 be7 40. nxe5 dxe5 41. qf7 h6 42. qe8+ 1 0
white forces mate in 12 moves if the game were to continue, with 42...bf8 43.rf3 qa3 44.rxf8+ qxf8 45.qxf8+ kh7 46.d6 exd4 47.ba2 h5 48.dxc7 nb4 49.qg8+ kh6 50.f4 g5 51.f5 g4 52.h4 bxf5 53.exf5 nxa2 54.qh8#


== see alsoedit ==
list of chess games between anand and kramnik


== referencesedit ==


== further readingedit ==
viswanathan anand, my best games of chess (gambit, 2001 (new edition))
edward winter's "books about leading modern chessplayers" (chess notes feature article)


== external linksedit ==
viswanathan anand player profile and games at chessgames.com
viswanathan anand on twitter (chessbase article on anand's twitter account)
anand wins world championship 2010
viswanathan anand games at 365chess.com
interview with viswanathan anand at latestchess.com year 2007
time: history of chess, by viswanathan anand
startup lessons from viswanathan anand
interview with cnn ibn, may 2008
interview at chessbase
vishy anand on lessons to board room from the board economic times
"india swoons over its chess champ, and even the game" new york times 9 august 2010
viswanathan anand's interview in dec 2011 before london chess classic

chintamani nagesa ramachandra rao frs, also known as c.n.r. rao (born 30 june 1934), is an indian chemist who has worked mainly in solid-state and structural chemistry. he currently serves as the head of the scientific advisory council to the prime minister of india. rao has honorary doctorates from 60 universities from around the world. he has authored around 1,500 research papers and 45 scientific books.
on 16 november 2013, the government of india announced his selection for bharat ratna, the highest civilian award in india, making him the third scientist after c.v. raman and a. p. j. abdul kalam to receive the award. he was conferred the award on 4 february 2014 by president pranab mukherjee in a special ceremony in the durbar hall of the rashtrapati bhavan.


== early life and educationedit ==
c.n.r. rao was born in bangalore to hanumantha nagesa rao and nagamma nagesa rao. he was an only child, and his learned parents made an academic environment. he was well versed in hindu literature from his mother and in english from his father at an early age. he did not attend elementary school but was home-tutored by his mother, who was particularly skilled in arithmetic and hindu literature. he entered middle school in 1940, at age six. although he was the youngest in his class, he used to tutor his classmates in mathematics and english. he passed lower secondary examination (class vii) in first class in 1944. he was ten years old, and his father rewarded him with four annas (twenty-five paisa). he attended acharya patashala high school in basavanagudi, which made a lasting influence on his interest in chemistry. his father enrolled him to a kannada-medium course to encourage his mother tongue, but at home used english for all conversation. he completed secondary school leaving certificate in first class in 1947. he studied bsc at central college, bangalore. here he developed his communication skills in english and also learnt sanskrit. he obtained his bachelor's degree from mysore university in 1951, in first class, and only at the age of seventeen. he initially thought of joining indian institute of science (iisc) for a diploma or a postgraduate degree in chemical engineering, but a teacher persuaded him to attend banaras hindu university. he obtained a master's in chemistry from bhu two years later. in 1953 he was granted a scholarship for phd in iit kharagpur. but four foreign universities, mit, penn state, columbia and purdue also offered him financial support. he chose purdue. his first research paper was published in the agra university journal of research in 1954. he completed phd in 1958, only after two years and nine months, at age twenty-four.


== professionedit ==
rao returned to bangalore in 1959 to join iisc as a lecturer. he got a monthly salary of rs 500. he started his own research with six phd students. after three years he got permanent appointment in the department of chemistry at the indian institute of technology kanpur. the director p.k. kelkar directly appointed him as head of the department. he worked there from 1963 to 1976. in 1964, c.v. raman informed him that he was elected as a fellow of the indian academy of sciences. in 1976 he returned to iisc to set up a solid state and structural chemistry unit. he became director of the iisc from 1984 to 1994. he has also been a visiting professor at purdue university, the university of oxford, the university of cambridge and university of california, santa barbara. he was the jawaharlal nehru professor at the university of cambridge and professorial fellow at the king's college, cambridge during 1983 1984.
rao is currently the national research professor, linus pauling research professor and honorary president of jawaharlal nehru centre for advanced scientific research, bangalore which he founded in 1989. he was appointed chair of the scientific advisory council to the indian prime minister in january 2005, a position which he had occupied earlier during 1985 89. he is also the director of the international centre for materials science (icms).
rao is one of the world's foremost solid state and materials chemists. he has contributed to the development of the field over five decades. his work on transition metal oxides has led to basic understanding of novel phenomena and the relationship between materials properties and the structural chemistry of these materials.
rao was one of the earliest to synthesize two-dimensional oxide materials such as la2cuo4. his work has led to a systematic study of compositionally controlled metal-insulator transitions. such studies have had a profound impact in application fields such as colossal magneto resistance and high temperature superconductivity. oxide semiconductors have unusual promise. he has made immense contributions to nanomaterials over the last two decades, besides his work on hybrid materials.
he is the author of around 1500 research papers. he has authored and edited 45 books. rao serves on the board of the science initiative group.


== awards and recognitionedit ==


=== scientific awardsedit ===
dsc from mysore university in 1961
marlow medal by the faraday society of england in 1967
shanti swarup bhatnagar prize for science and technology in chemical science in 1968
yedanapalli medal and prize in 1973
c. v. raman award in physical science by the university grants commission of india in 1975
s. n. bose medal by the indian national science academy in 1980
royal society of chemistry (london) medal in 1981
member of many of the world's scientific associations, including the national academy of sciences, american academy of arts and sciences, the royal society (london, 1982), royal society of canada, french academy, japanese academy, serbian academy of sciences and arts and polish academy of sciences, czechoslovak academy of sciences, serbian academy of sciences, slovenian academy of sciences, brazilian academy of sciences, spanish royal academy of sciences, national academy of sciences of korea, african academy of sciences, and the american philosophical society. he is also member of the pontifical academy and foreign member of academia europaea.
honorary doctorates from several universities including bordeaux, caen, colorado, khartoum, liverpool, northwestern, novosibirsk, oxford, purdue, stellenbosch, universite joseph fourier, wales, wroclaw, notre dame, uppsala, aligarh muslim university, anna, ap, banaras, bengal engineering, bangalore, burdwan, bundelkhand, delhi, hyderabad, ignou, iit bombay, kharagpur, delhi, patna, jntu, kalyani, karnataka, kolkata, kuvempu, lucknow, mangalore, manipur, mysore, osmania, punjab, roorkee, sikkim manipal, srm, tumkur, sri venkateswara, vidyasagar, amity university, gurgaon and visveswaraya technological university.
hevrovsky gold medal of the czechoslovak academy of sciences in 1989
meghnath saha medal of the indian national science academy in 1990
einstein gold medal of unesco in 1996
centenary medal of the royal society of chemistry, london in 2000
hughes medal by the royal society in 2000
doctor of science from university of calcutta in 2004
somiya award of the international union of materials research in 2004
india science award in 2004
dan david prize from tel aviv university in 2005 shared with george whitesides and robert langer.
foreign fellow of bangladesh academy of sciences
abdus salam medal by the world academy of sciences (twas) in 2008
nikkei asia prize for science, technology and innovation, by nihon keizai shimbun, inc., japan in 2008
royal medal by the royal society in 2009
august-wilhelm-von-hofmann medal by the german chemical society in 2010.
ernesto illy trieste science prize for materials research in 2011
2012 award for international scientific cooperation from the chinese academy of sciences in 2013
elected honorary foreign member of chinese academy of sciences in 2013
distinguished academician award from iit patna in 2013


=== indian governmental honoursedit ===
padma shri in 1974
padma vibhushan in 1985
karnataka ratna by the karnataka state government in 2001
bharat ratna in 2014


=== foreign honoursedit ===
great cross of the national order of scientific merit from the president of brazil in 2002
chevalier de la l gion d'honneur (knight of the legion of honour, france) in 2005
order of friendship by the president of russia in 2009
order of the rising sun (gold and silver star) of japan in 2015


== personal lifeedit ==
rao is married to indumati rao in 1960. they have two children, sanjay and suchitra. his son sanjay rao is engaged in popularising science in bangalore's schools. his daughter suchitra is married to k.m. ganesh, the director of the indian institute of science education and research (iiser) at pune, maharashtra. rao is quite technophobic. he removed computers from his tables and never checks his email by himself. he also said that he uses the mobile phone only to talk to his wife.


== controversiesedit ==
rao has been accused of indulging and allowing plagiarism. in december 2011, c. n. r. rao apologised to advanced materials   a peer-reviewed journal, for reproducing text of other scientists in his research paper. his collaborator and the other senior author of the paper s. b. krupanidhi accused a co-author phd student at iisc for the mistake, "these sentences were part of the introduction of the paper, which was written by our student, that neither of us (namely, the senior authors, rao and krupanidhi) paid attention to".
the phd student took the responsibility for the incident and issued an apology. later rao offered to withdraw the article from the journal, but the editor let the publication stay as it is. rao claimed to have never indulged in plagiarism. later few more instances of plagiarism by rao and his collaborators were reported. rao was criticised by an indian scientist for these incidents and passing the responsibility to the junior scientists.
on 17 november 2013, at a press conference following the announcement of his bharat ratna, he called the indian politicians "idiots" that caused a national outrage. he said, "why the hell have these idiots [politicians] given so little to us despite what we have done. for the money that the government has given us we [scientists] have done much more." in his defence rao insisted that he merely talked about the "idiotic" way the politicians ignore investments for research funding in science.


== referencesedit ==


== further readingedit ==
c.n.r. rao (2010). climbing the limitless ladder: a life in chemistry. world scientific publishing co. pte. ltd., singapore. isbn 9814307866


== external linksedit ==
academic profile at the pontifical academy of sciences
dan david prize laureate 2005
prof. cnr rao @ jncasr
jawaharlal nehru centre for advanced scientific research
c.n.r. rao hall of science
solid state and structural chemistry unit

rahul dravid ( pronunciation ; born 11 january 1973) is a former indian cricketer and captain, widely regarded as one of the greatest batsmen in the history of cricket. born in a marathi family, he started playing cricket at the age of 12 and later represented the state team at the under-15, under-17 and under-19 levels. hailed as the wall, dravid was named one of the best five cricketers of the year by wisden cricketers' almanack in 2000 and received the player of the year and the test player of the year awards at the inaugural icc awards ceremony in 2004. in december 2011, he became the first non-australian cricketer to deliver the bradman oration in canberra.
as of october 2012, dravid is the fourth-highest run scorer in test cricket, after sachin tendulkar, ricky ponting and jacques kallis, and is only the second indian cricketer, after tendulkar to score 10,000 runs both in tests and in odis. in 2004, after completing his century against bangladesh in chittagong, he became the first and the only player till date to score a century in all the ten test-playing countries. as of october 2012, he holds the record for the most number of catches taken by a player (non-wicket-keeper) in test cricket, with 210.
in august 2011, after receiving a surprise call in the odi series against england, dravid declared his retirement from odis as well as twenty20 international (t20i), and in march 2012, he announced his retirement from international and first-class cricket. he appeared in the 2012 indian premier league as captain of the rajasthan royals.
rahul dravid, along with glenn mcgrath were honoured during the seventh annual bradman awards function in sydney on 1 november 2012. dravid has also been honoured with the padma shri and the padma bhushan award, india's fourth and third highest civilian awards.
in 2014, rahul dravid joined the gosports foundation, bangalore as a member of their board of advisors. in collaboration with gosports foundation he is mentoring india's future olympians and paralympians as part of the rahul dravid athlete mentorship programme. indian badminton player prannoy kumar, para-swimmer sharath gayakwad and young golfer chikkarangappa s. was part of the initial group of athletes to be mentored by rahul dravid.


== early and personal lifeedit ==
dravid was born in indore, madhya pradesh. his family later moved to bangalore, karnataka, where he was raised. his mother tongue is marathi. dravid's father worked for a company that makes jams and preserves, giving rise to the later nickname jammy. his mother, pushpa, was a professor of architecture at the university visvesvaraya college of engineering (uvce), bangalore. dravid has a younger brother named vijay. he did his schooling at st. joseph's boys high school, bangalore and earned a degree in commerce from st. joseph's college of commerce, bangalore. he was selected to india national cricket team while studying mba in st joseph s college of business administration


== formative years and domestic careeredit ==
dravid started playing cricket at the age of 12, and represented karnataka at the under-15, the under-17 and the under-19 levels. former cricketer keki tarapore first noticed dravid's talent while coaching at a summer camp in the chinnaswamy stadium. dravid scored a century for his school team. he also played as wicket-keeper.
dravid made his ranji trophy debut in february 1991, while he was still attending college. playing alongside future indian teammates anil kumble and javagal srinath against maharashtra in pune, he scored 82 runs in the match, which ended in a draw. his first full season was in 1991 92, when he scored two centuries and finished up with 380 runs at an average of 63.3, getting selected for the south zone cricket team in the duleep trophy.


== international careeredit ==


=== international debutedit ===
dravid made his international debut on 3 april 1996 in an odi against sri lanka in the singer cup held in singapore immediately after the 1996 world cup replacing vinod kambli. he wasn't particularly impressive with the bat scoring just three runs before being dismissed by muttiah muralitharan but took two catches in the match. he followed it up with another failure in the next odi of the series scoring just 4 runs before getting run out against pakistan.
in contrast to his odi debut, his test debut was rather successful one. dravid was selected for the indian squad touring england on the backdrop of a consistent performance in domestic cricket for 5 years. fine performances in the tour games including fifties against gloucestershire and leicestershire failed to earn him a place in the team for the first test. he finally made his test debut at lord's on 20 june 1996 against england in the second test of the series at the expense of injured senior batsman sanjay manjrekar. manjrekar, who was suffering from an ankle injury, was to undergo a fitness test on the morning of the second test. dravid had already been informed that he would play if manjrekar fails the test. ten minutes before the toss, sandeep patil, the then indian coach, went up to dravid to inform him that he was indeed going to make his debut today. patil recalled years later:

i told him he will be playing. his face lit up. i cannot forget that moment.

coming in to bat at no. 7, he forged important partnerships with another debutant sourav ganguly and his karnataka team mates kumble and srinath securing a vital first innings lead for his team. batting for more than 6 hours, he scored 95 runs before getting out to the bowling of chris lewis. dravid was just 5 runs away from a landmark debut hundred when he nicked a lewis delivery to the keeper and walked even before umpire's decision. when asked about the walk, he quipped, "everybody at the ground had heard the nick". he also took his first catch in test cricket in this match to dismiss nasser hussain off the bowling of srinath. in the next tour game against british universities, dravid scored a hundred. he managed to hold on to his position in the playing xi in the third test despite manjrekar's return. eventually ajay jadeja was dropped to accommodate manjrekar in the team. dravid went on to score 84 runs in the first innings of the nottingham test. dravid concluded a successful debut series with an impressive average of 62.33 from 2 test matches.


=== "branded" a tale of two formatsedit ===
dravid's early years in international cricket mirrored his international debut. while he straightaway made a name for himself in test cricket, he had to struggle quite a bit to make a mark in odis.


==== success in test cricketedit ====
after a successful test debut in england, dravid played the one-off test against australia in delhi   the first edition of border-gavaskar trophy and his first test in india. batting at no.6, he scored 40 runs in the first innings. dravid batted at no. 3 position for the first time in the first test of the three match home series against south africa in ahmedabad in november 1996. he was then promoted to the opening slot in the second test and later demoted in the batting order for the third test. he didn't do too well in the series scoring just 175 runs at an average of 29.16 and yet was the third best indian batsman in the series. india won the series 2 1.
two weeks later, india toured south africa for a three match test series. chasing a target of 395 runs in the first test, indian team bundled out meekly for 66 runs on the durban pitch that provided excessive bounce and seam movement. dravid was the only indian batsman who reached double figures in the innings scoring 27 not out. dravid was promoted to the no. 3 slot again in the second innings of the second test. though he failed to make a mark scoring just 12 runs with india losing the match, the move finally paid rich dividends in the third test when dravid almost won the match for india with his maiden test hundred in the first innings scoring 148 runs and another 81 runs in the second innings at wanderers before the thunderstorms and cullinan's hundred saved the day for south africa enabling them to draw the match. dravid's performance in this test earned him his first man of the match award in test cricket. dravid top scored for india in the series with 277 runs at an average of 55.40.
dravid carried the good form from south africa to the west indies where he once again top scored for india in the five match test series. he scored 360 runs at an average of 72.00 including four fifties. despite his performance, india lost the series 0 1. 92 runs scored in the first innings of the fifth match in georgetown earned him a joint man of the match award along with shivnarine chanderpaul. with this series, dravid concluded a successful first full test season. he topped the international runs chart for the 1996/97 season with 852 runs from 12 matches at an average of 50.11 with six fifties and one hundred.
dravid continued his good run in the next season scoring 604 runs at an average of 50.33. he scored seven fifties in eight tests which included 6 fifties in consecutive innings(3 each against sri lanka and australia). the season started with a back-to-back home and away series against sri lanka. while he had a poor outing in sri lanka, he made up for it in the home series where he scored 304 runs at an average of 76.00. by the time he completed his second full season in test cricket with another decent show in the three test home series against australia, he had scored 15 fifties in 22 tests which included four scores of nineties but just a solitary hundred.
the century drought came to an end in the ensuing season when he further raised the bar of his performance scoring 752 runs in 7 tests at an average of 62.66 that included four hundreds and one fifty. the first of those four hundreds came on the zimbabwe tour. dravid top scored in both the innings against zimbabwe scoring 118 and 44 runs respectively. despite his performance, india lost the one-off test. this was to be india's only loss for the next 13 years in any test match when dravid scored a hundred.
next up was a tour to new zealand. the series that started with the first duck of his test career in the first innings of the second test (first test having been abandoned without a ball bowled) ended with twin hundreds in each innings of the third test in hamilton. he scored 190 and 103 not out in the first and the second innings respectively, becoming only the third indian batsman, after vijay hazare and sunil gavaskar, to score a century in both innings of a test match. during his innings of 190, he put up a record 144 run partnership against new zealand for 8th wicket with javagal srinath. the match ended in a draw.
later that month, india played a two test home series against pakistan. dravid didn't do much with the bat in the series. india lost the first test but won the second test in delhi riding on kumble's historic 10-wicket haul. dravid played his part in the 10-wicket haul by taking a catch to dismiss mushtaq ahmed who was kumble's eighth victim of the inning.
pakistan played another test in india a couple of weeks later- first test of the first ever asian test championship. dravid couldn't do much with the bat, and india went on to lose the riot-affected test at the eden gardens. india went to sri lanka to play the second test of the championship. dravid scored a hundred at colombo in the first innings and featured in a record breaking 232 run stand with sadagoppan ramesh for the second wicket against sri lanka. dravid also effected a run out of russel arnold during sri lankan inning fielding at short leg. on the fourth morning, dravid got injured while fielding at the same position when the ball from jayawardene's pull shot hit him below his left eye through the helmet grill. he didn't come out to bat in the second innings due to the injury. india could only manage a draw and failed to qualify for the finals of the championship.


==== struggle in odisedit ====
in a stark contrast to his test career, dravid had to struggle a lot to make a mark in the odis. despite his twin failures in the 1996 singer cup, dravid accompanied indian team to sharjah for the pepsi cup immediately after it. dravid failed once again managing just 14 runs in the first two matches of the triangular series and was promptly dropped from rest of the games of the series. on the 1996 india tour of england, he wasn't picked up for the first two games of the texaco trophy, but got a chance in the third odi where he scored some quick runs towards the end of the innings, scoring 22 not out from 15 balls. india then went on to play a quadrangular series in sri lanka where dravid could manage only 20 runs in two innings.
dravid had the first taste of success in odi cricket when india toured canada to participate in the 1996 sahara cup. dravid scored 220 runs in five games against pakistan at an average of 44.00. in the second odi, dravid and azhar put on a record 3rd wicket partnership for india in odis adding 161 runs. he scored 46 runs in the low scoring third game which fetched him his first man of the match award in odis. despite him emerging the top scorer of the tournament, india lost the series 2 3.
following the sahara cup, india played two triangular series- one involving australia and south africa in india and the other involving south africa and zimbabwe in south africa. the two triangular series were played as a part of back-to-back home and away series between india and south africa in 1996/97. india also played a mohinder amarnath benefit match against south africa in mumbai sandwiched between the two triangular series. dravid played in all the games. he had a moderate outing in india ending up as the third highest run scorer for india, much like the indian leg of test series. much like the south african leg of test series, dravid emerged as the top scorer for india in the south african leg of triangular series as well. dravid top scored in the finals with 84 runs and was adjudged man of the match, in spite of which india lost the final to south africa.
dravid accompanied the indian odi squad to the tour of zimbabwe but didn't get a game despite a good performance in the previous triangular series in south africa, though he got to play all the games in the following odi series on the west indies tour, thanks largely to a good performance in the test series preceding it. dravid had moderate success in the four match odi series scoring 121 runs at an average of 40.33. he followed it up by his maiden odi hundred in the independence cup against pakistan in chennai. india lost nonetheless. dravid top scored for india in the quadrangular event with 189 runs at an average of 94.50, but india could not qualify for the finals. dravid had moderate success in the ensuing asia cup and a three match bilateral series against sri lanka scoring a fifty each in both the series. later, he struggled to score in the 1997 sahara cup in toronto, where he had top scored the previous year. he scored just 65 runs in four innings and had little contribution in india's 4 1 series win. he was eventually dropped from the playing xi for the final two games of wills challenge series despite top scoring in the first game with an 81-ball fifty. he accompanied the team to the 1997/98 champions trophy but did not get a chance to play the first two games. he was then picked up for the third game only to be dropped again from the indian odi squad for the rest of the odi season.
dravid was recalled to the odi squad in may 1998 for the coca-cola triangular series, but had a poor comeback scoring just 88 runs in 4 games including a 22-ball 5 runs and a 21-ball one run innings, both coming against bangladesh. he was duly dropped from the playing xi for the finals of the series and later dropped from the odi squad for the singer nidahas triangular series in sri lanka.
dravid returned to the odi fold for the 1998 segment of sahara cup in toronto but struggled with the bat scoring just 32 runs in 4 games, thereby getting himself dropped from the playing xi once again for the last game of the series. he managed to keep his place intact in the odi squad and had a decent show against zimbabwe in a bilateral odi series. he represented india in wills international cup but without much success. dravid accompanied indian odi squad to sharjah for the 1998 99 coca-cola champions trophy, but didn't play the first 3 games of the round-robin league. he got a chance in the last inconsequential tie against zimbabwe and failed once again scoring just 3 runs, there by getting dropped from the final of the series. by the end of 1998, dravid had scored 1709 runs in 65 odis at an average of 31.64 with a poor strike rate of 63.48.
by now, dravid had been branded as a test specialist by experts and sports journalists alike. while he continued to score runs in test cricket, his poor strike rate in odis came under scanner. he drew criticism for not being able to adjust his style of play to the needs of odi cricket, his inability to rotate strike and play big strokes, thereby putting pressure on fellow batsmen. that changed in the year 1999. dravid worked hard to change his game by increasing his range of strokes and adjusting his batting style to suit the requirement of odi cricket.
dravid began his odi campaign in the new year with a run-a-ball hundred against new zealand in taupo, fresh from his twin hundreds in the hamilton test just a week back. he scored another 186 runs in the rest of the four games, ending up as top scorer of the series with 309 runs from 5 games at an average of 77.25. his effort in the fourth odi at eden park- 51 runs off 71 balls, earned him his fourth man of the match award in odis but the first one in a winning cause, his previous three having ended up in india's defeats.
dravid scored another hundred against sri lanka in 1998/99 pepsi cup at nagpur, the same opponents against whom he had scored a hundred a month back in asian test championship. he bowled 4 overs in the next match against pakistan and took the wicket of saeed anwar, his first wicket in international cricket. he didn't score much in rest of the matches of the pepsi cup. dravid warmed up for his debut world cup with two fifties in the 1998 99 coca-cola cup in sharjah, one each against england and pakistan. standing-in as a temporary wicket-keeper in the third match of the series, in place of injured nayan mongia (india's designated keeper), dravid effected a stumping off the bowling of sunil joshi   graeme hick being dravid's first victim as a wicket-keeper. dravid also took a catch in this match. he ended up as the top scorer for india with 188 runs in five games, though his last innings before the world cup was a golden duck against pakistan, dismissed by wasim akram, in the finals of the series.


=== debut world cup successedit ===

dravid made his world cup debut against south africa at hove striking a half century, but scored just 13 in the next game against zimbabwe. india lost both the games. india needed to win the remaining three games to have any chance of qualifying for the super six stage. dravid hit his maiden world cup hundred against kenya at bristol, putting up a record unbeaten partnership of 237 runs with sachin tendulkar. india won the match by 94 runs. mongia got injured during keeping forcing dravid to take up his duties during the match. as mongia could not recover by the next match, dravid played his first odi as a designated keeper against sri lanka at taunton. coming in at no. 3, dravid scored 145 runs from 129 balls with 17 fours and a six, becoming only the second batsman to hit back-to-back hundreds in world cup history. he featured in a record 318 runs partnership with sourav ganguly   the first ever three hundred run partnership in odi history. india won the match by 157 runs. dravid struck another fifty against england in their last group match. india won the match to end up as the group runner-up and advanced into the super six stage. dravid scored 2, 61 & 29 in the three super six matches against australia, pakistan & new zealand respectively. india won against pakistan but lost the other two games to end up at the bottom of the points table. dravid emerged as the top scorer of the tournament with 461 runs from 8 games at an average of 65.85 and a strike rate of 85.52. though india failed to qualify for the semi-finals, dravid's success at the world cup established him as the quintessential no. 3 batsman of indian team in both formats of the game.
dravid's post-world cup campaign started on a poor note with just 40 runs coming in 4 games of aiwa cup in august 1999. he finally came into his own in the ensuing singapore challenge, where he top scored for india, including a hundred in the finals. he also top scored for india in the dmc cup including a fifty in the third game. while india lost singapore challenge finals to west indies, they took their revenge by beating them in the dmc cup 2 1. by now, dravid had started to keep wickets on an infrequent basis with india fielding him as designated wicket-keeper in 4 out of last 10 odis. dravid failed to make a mark in the lg cup where he scored 81 runs in 4 games.
dravid started off his post-world cup test cricket season on a positive note with a hundred against new zealand in the second innings of the first test match of a 3-match home series at mohali in october 1999 salvaging a draw after india was bowled out for 83 runs in the first innings. before this innings, dravid had five test hundreds to his name from 29 tests, all of which came in away tests, this being his first test hundred on indian soil. except for this innings, he struggled throughout the rest of the series.
however, he did well in the 3-2 series win against new zealand in the bilateral odi series scoring 240 runs in 5 games at an average of 60 and a strike rate of 83.62. in the second game of the series at hyderabad, he scored 153 runs- his career best innings, which included 15 fours and two sixes. he featured in a 331 run partnership with tendulkar- highest partnership in odi cricket history. with this performance, dravid ended an eventful year, as far as his odi career was concerned, on a high note. in 1999, dravid scored 1761 runs in 43 odis at an average of 46.34 and a strike rate of 75.16 including 6 hundreds and 8 fifties and featured in two 300+ partnerships.
india toured australia in december 1999 for a 3 match test series and a triangular odi tournament. dravid failed miserably with the bat as india slumped to a 0 3 whitewash in the test series. however, he did reasonably well in the 1999 2000 carlton & united series scoring 3 fifties in the triangular event.


=== rise through the ranksedit ===
dravid's poor form in tests continued as india suffered a 0 2 whitewash against south africa in a home series. tendulkar resigned from captaincy in march 2000 after the humiliating loss to south africa amidst much speculations. sourav ganguly, the team's vice-captain then, was promoted as the new indian team captain and dravid was appointed as his deputy.
the newly appointed vice-captain had moderate success in the bilateral odi series against south africa. dravid scored 208 runs in 5 matches at an average of 41.60 including 2 fifties. he also took 3 wickets in the series including two wickets in a single over in the first odi at kochi. his bowling figures of 2/43 in 9 overs remained his career best odi bowling figures. it was also the best bowling figure by any bowler for that particular match. his series bowling average of 22.66 was the best amongst all the bowlers in the series. india won the series 3-2.
india played a tri-nation series in sharjah immediately after the bilateral odi series against south africa. indian team performed poorly and failed to qualify for the finals. collective failure of indian batting in the series can be judged from the fact that dravid, with a poor show of 89 runs from 4 matches at an average of 22.25, was still the 2nd best indian batsman in the series. a week later, a match fixing scandal rocked the international cricket scene opening a pandora's box that eventually engulfed top indian and south african cricketers including azharuddin and cronje.


=== county stintedit ===
dravid had always been keen on further honing his batting skills in testing english conditions by playing in county cricket. he had discussed regarding the same with john wright, former new zealand cricketer and kent coach, during india's 1998-99 tour of new zealand. wright was particularly impressed with dravid's performance on that tour, especially his twin hundreds at hamilton. the talks finally materialised when dravid made his county debut for kent in april 2000. ganguly also debuted in the same match, albeit for the opposite team.
kent offer had come as a welcome change for dravid. there was too much negativity surrounding indian cricket marred by match fixing controversy. dravid himself was struggling to score runs. barring the one hundred against new zealand at mohali, dravid had not played a significant inning throughout the 1999-00 season. the county stint gave him a chance to "get away to a new environment" and "relax". the wide variety of pitches and weather conditions in england and a full season of intense county cricket against professional cricketers gave him a chance to further his cricketing education and learn things about his game.
dravid made the most of this opportunity. in his 2nd game for kent, dravid scored a fluid 182 propelling them to an innings and 163 runs victory over the touring zimbabwe side. out of 7 first class tour games that zimbabwe played on that tour, kent was the only team that managed to beat them. dravid hit another fifty in a draw against surrey. in june 2000, dravid had to miss a county match for kent in order to perform his national duties.
indian team, not in right frame of mind, expectedly performed poorly in the asia cup 2000. dravid's poor form, much like throughout the 1999-00 season, continued in asia cup however, he showed no signs of it when he returned to england to resume his kent duties. he continued his sublime form in county cricket.
in july 2000, kent's away match against hampshire at portsmouth was billed as a showdown between two great cricketers- warne and dravid. dravid came out on top. on a dustbowl, tailor made to suit home team spinners, warne took 4 wickets but could not take the all important wicket of dravid. coming in to bat at 15/2, dravid faced 295 balls scoring 137 runs - his maiden hundred in county championships. dravid scored 73 not out in the 2nd innings guiding kent to a six wicket victory as warne went wicketless.
in their last county game of the season, kent needed one bonus point to prevent themselves from being relegated to the second division. dravid made sure they stay put in the first division by fetching that one bonus point with an inning of 77 runs.
dravid concluded a successful stint with kent aggregating 1221 runs from 16 first class matches(15 county games and 1 tour game against zimbabwe) at an average of 55.50 including 2 hundreds and 8 fifties. he shouldered kent's batting single-handedly as the second best kent batsman during the same period, paul nixon, scored just 567 runs at an average of 33.35 in 17 matches. dravid contributed to kent's county campaign not just with the bat but also with his fielding and bowling taking 14 catches and 4 wickets at an average of 32.00.


=== golden yearsedit ===
as the new international season commenced, the first and foremost challenge for the newly appointed captain and vice-captain, ganguly and dravid, was to pull the team out of the shadows of the match fixing scandal. indian team played 2000 icc knockout trophy with vigour and showed a lot of character beating kenya, australia and south africa in consecutive matches to reach the finals. although india lost to new zealand in the finals, their spirited performance in the tournament helped restoring public faith back in indian cricket. dravid played his part scoring 157 runs in 4 matches at an average of 52.33, including 2 fifties. dravid played the first two matches of 2000-01 coca-cola champions trophy and scored 85 runs in the 2nd match against zimbabwe opening the innings before getting injured while fielding at slips forcing him to miss the rest of the tournament.
india started off the new test season with a 9-wicket win against bangladesh. dravid played a brisk inning of 49 ball 41 runs, including 5 fours and a six, chasing a target of 63 runs. however, dravid's poor patch truly ended in the next test series against zimbabwe, which was also the first series for john wright as the new indian coach. wright was instrumental in dravid's association with kent earlier this year. dravid returned the favour by recommending his name to the bcci for the post of national team coach. by now, dravid had played 8 tests since his last hundred against new zealand at mohali scoring just 350 runs at a paltry average of 23.33 without a single fifty plus inning. the indian vice-captain ended the run drought and welcomed the new indian coach with a double hundred - dravid's first. he scored 200 not out in the first inning and 70 not out in the second inning guiding india to a comfortable 9-wicket victory against zimbabwe. he scored 162 in the drawn second test to end the series with an average of 432.00 - highest batting average by an indian in a test series.
dravid scored just a solitary fifty in the second of the five match bilateral odi series between india and zimbabwe however, the series proved to be a milestone in dravid's career. dravid captained the indian team for the first time in the 5th match of the series as the regular captain ganguly had to sit out due to one match suspension. riding on agarkar's all-round performance, dravid led india to a 39 run victory in his maiden odi as indian captain.


==== australia tour of india 2000/01edit ====
the australian team toured india in february 2001 for 3 tests and 5 odis. the tour was billed as the "final frontier" for steve waugh's all conquering men who came to india on the back of 15 consecutive test wins. the australian team extended their run to 16 consecutive wins as they beat india convincingly in the first test by 10 wickets. dravid scored 9 in the first innings as india folded for 176 runs. in the second innings dravid, along with tendulkar, tried to show some resistance. at one point dravid mistimed a pull that slater claimed to have caught cleanly. however, the third umpire thought otherwise. dravid stood ground. slater, in a "moment of madness" as described by peter roebuck, had an altercation with dravid and on-field umpires. dravid's 196 ball long resistance finally ended when he got out bowled to warne for 39 runs.


===== history at edenedit =====
the australian juggernaut seemed unstoppable as they looked on course for their 17th consecutive victory in the second test at the eden gardens. australia amassed 445 runs in the first innings after winning the toss and electing to bat first. in reply, indian team was bowled out for meagre 171 conceding a lead of 274 runs. dravid scored 25 runs from 82 balls and eventually got out bowled to warne for the 2nd time in a row. only laxman scored more than dravid in the innings. india was expectedly asked to follow-on by steve waugh. laxman, who had scored a fine fifty in the first innings was promoted to no. 3 position which had been dravid's usual spot for quite sometime now, while dravid, who was not looking in best of form in the series, was relegated to no. 6 position. although indian batting displayed better show in the second innings, they were still looking towards a certain defeat. dravid came out to bat at no. 6 with scoreboard reading 232/4 with india still needing 42 runs to avoid an innings defeat. dravid joined forces with the man who had replaced him at no. 3 position as they played out the remaining time avoiding any further jolts. india ended the day's play at 254/4 with laxman unbeaten at 109 and dravid at 7.
as the fourth day's play started with india still 20 runs behind with just 6 wickets in hand and two full days of play left, another convincing win for australia looked inevitable. however, what transpired on day 4 etched the names of laxman and dravid in history forever. laxman and dravid batted out the entire day without getting dismissed. steve waugh used 9 bowlers, but laxman and dravid kept mcgrath-warne and company at bay and scored at will, completely dominating the bowling. india's score which was 254/4 at the start of the day's play read 589/4 at the end of the day's play. the duo added 335 runs on day 4 tumbling many records on the way. dravid, having been under severe criticism for his previous failures in the series, celebrated his hundred in an uncharacteristic fashion gesturing at the press box. he remained unbeaten at 155 and laxman at 276 at the end of the day's play.
laxman could add only 5 runs to his tally on day 5 missing on a landmark triple hundred, thus bringing an end to a historic 375-run partnership. however, dravid continued in the same vein before getting run out for 180 while trying to force the pace. captain ganguly allowed the tail to score some quick runs before declaring at 657/7 setting australia a target of 384 with 75 overs left in the match. the partnership between dravid and laxman had not pulled india back in the match but also instilled a sense of self-belief in the team. an inspired team india bowled superbly to dismiss australia for 212 in 68.3 overs. india won the match by 171 runs becoming only the 2nd team to do so after following on.
dravid scored 81 runs in the first innings of the third test and took 4 catches in the match as india defeated australia at chennai in a nail biting finish to clinch the series 2-1. although dravid did exceptionally well in the series scoring 338 runs at an average of 56.33, the series cost him the coveted no. 3 position in the indian batting line-up. dravid scored 80 in the first of the 5 match odi series at his home ground as india won the match by 60 runs. he didn't do too well in the remaining 4 odis as australia won the series 3-2.
between april 2001 and march 2002, india played 12 official tests including 2 each in zimbabwe and south africa(3rd test being declared unofficial), 3 in sri lanka and a 3-match and 2-match home series against england and zimbabwe respectively. dravid performed below par scoring 669 runs from 12 tests at an average of 39.35 including 6 fifties. he looked in good touch in zimbabwe as he scored 137 runs from 134 balls in the first tour game. however, he could score just a solitary fifty in the test series as the series ended in a 1-1 draw. he aggregated 138 runs at an average of 69.00 from the series. during sri lanka tour, dravid moved up the order in the absence of injured tendulkar and laxman. he batted at no. 4 in the first test and at his favourite no. 3 position in the remaining two tests. batting at no. 3, dravid scored crucial 75 runs in the 4th innings of the 2nd test as india defeated sri lanka by 7 wickets chasing a target of 264 runs. he ended up as the highest scorer for india in the series with 235 runs at an average of 47.00 including 2 fifties. india lost the series 1-2. on the south african tour, dravid opened the innings in the first test but failed to make a mark as india lost the match. in the 2nd test, india was set a target of 395 runs with a full day plus 41 overs of play left in the match. india, having failed to survive for 100 overs in any of the previous 3 innings in the series, started on a poor note losing their first wicket in the first over with zero runs on the scoreboard. however, dravid forged an important partnership of 171 runs with dasgupta. more importantly, the partnership lasted for 83.2 overs taking india to the brink of safety. poor weather too helped india salvage a draw as only 96.2 overs could be bowled in the innings. however, the match is best known for the mike denness incident. the match referee handed a one match ban to sehwag and suspended ban to five other indian players including tendulkar and ganguly for various offences including excessive appealing and ball tampering. the bcci threatened to call off the tour if mike denness continued as the referee. while icc sided with denness, south african board sided with bcci replacing denness and forcing icc to declare the 3rd test unofficial. dravid captained the team in the unofficial test in the absence of injured ganguly. india lost the match by an innings margin. except for the match saving innings of 87 runs at port elizabeth, dravid failed miserably in the series bringing his series aggregate to 130 runs from 3 tests(2 official and one unofficial) at an average of 21.66. dravid performed poorly in the subsequent home series against england and zimbabwe, scoring just two fifties in 5 tests.
dravid compensated for the below par performance in tests in 2001-02 season with a good show in the odis. on the tour to zimbabwe, he scored an unbeaten 72 of 64 balls while chasing a target of 235 against zimbabwe in the 3rd match of the tri-series guiding india to a 4-wicket win with 4 balls to spare. he was adjudged man of the match for his match winning knock. he ended up with a series aggregate of 121 runs from 5 matches at a decent average of 40.33 and a strike rate of 101.68. he was the only batsman with a strike rate of more than 100 among those who managed to aggregate more than 100 runs in the series. in the triangular series in sri lanka, india lost 3 consecutive matches and was on the brink elimination from the series. in the absence of injured tendulkar and zaheer and suspended ganguly, dravid captained the side in the 4th match and led them to their first win in the series. he played crucial innings in the last three league matches contributing to three consecutive victories, thus helping india qualify for the finals which they eventually lost to sri lanka. dravid topped india's run chart for the series scoring 259 runs at an average of 51.80 and a strike rate of 59.81. dravid followed it up with another decent show in standard bank tri-series in south africa, scoring 214 runs at an average of 53.50 and a strike rate of 71.81 including 3 fifties. he also kept wickets in the final two odis including the final of the series effecting 3 stumpings. by the end of the south african tour, dravid had started experiencing problem in his right shoulder. although he played the ensuing home test series against england, he pulled out of the 5-match odi series against england to undergo shoulder rehabilitation programme in south africa. he returned for the home series against zimbabwe and had a forgettable outing in the odi series barring the one inning of 66 not out from 59 balls in the 2nd match.
india toured west indies in april 2002. dravid scored an unbeaten hundred, his tenth overall and 6th outside india, against west indies at georgetown in the first test match. batting with a swollen jaw after being hit by a mervyn dillon bouncer, dravid scored 144 not out saving the day for india as they avoided a follow-on. the match ended in a draw. india beat west indies by 37 runs in the second test at port of spain. dravid contributed to the win with a fifty and 4 catches. he scored 91 runs in the 4th drawn test at st. john's. he also took the wicket of ridley jacobs who was batting on 118 - dravid's only wicket in test cricket. india lost the 5-match test series 1-2. dravid was the 2nd highest scorer for india aggregating 404 runs at an average of 57.71. he fared poorly with the bat in the bilateral odi series. he also doubled up as the wicket-keeper in the series effecting 2 dismissals (1 catch and 1 stumping).


==== india tour of england, 2002edit ====
india's next international assignment was the england tour in june 2002, 6 years after the previous tour when dravid had made his test debut. it was this tour where dravid hit the peak form of his career. the tour started with a triangular odi series involving india, england and sri lanka. dravid continued his keeping job in the series. in the first odi at lord's, dravid effected 3 dismissals (2 catches and 1 stumping) and then scored an unbeaten 73 runs guiding india to a 6-wicket victory against england in the company of yuvraj singh. in the 4th odi against sri lanka, dravid effected 1 dismissal (1 catch) and scored a fifty that won him a man of the match award as india won the match by 4 wickets. india eventually pulled off a remarkable chase to win the tournament beating england in the finals by 2 wickets. dravid scored 245 runs including 3 fifties at an average of 49.00 (third highest for india in the series). he also effected 9 dismissals including 6 catches an 3 stumpings (most by a keeper in the series).
dravid warmed up for the 4-match test series with a fifty against hampshire in the tour game. he scored 46 and 63 in the first test at lord's as india lost the match by 170 runs. he failed in the first innings of the second test at nottingham as india scored 357 runs. england, riding on vaughn's hundred, piled up a mammoth 617 runs, taking a first innings lead of 260 runs. indian team was in a state of bother as they were reduced to 11/2 in the second innings, still trailing by 249 runs however, a match saving hundred by dravid along with fifties from tendulkar and ganguly enabled india to draw the match.
the third test of the series was played at headingley, traditionally known to be conducive for seam bowling. ganguly won the toss and took a bold decision to bat first on a gloomy overcast morning. naseer hussain had studded his bowling line-up with four seamers including hoggard, flintoff, tudor and caddick. to make the matters worse, india lost sehwag in the seventh over of the match. however, dravid came in and joined forces with bangar. together the two batsmen weathered the storm. they applied themselves, took body blows but never gave the english bowlers any chance. dravid and bangar starred in a match defining partnership of 170 runs. by the time bangar got out after a commendable fifty, the sun was out and batting had become easier. tendulkar joined dravid as dravid went on to complete his 12th test hundred. dravid and tendulkar put on 150 runs together before a battered and bruised dravid finally got out stumped to giles for 148 runs, but not before playing out the difficult morning session of the second day. as the conditions got easier to bat, ganguly and tendulkar piled on england's misery bringing up their individual hundreds in the process. india declared the innings on 628/8 and then bowled england out twice to win the match by an innings and 46 runs - india's first overseas victory by an innings margin since 1977/78. such was the impact of dravid's seven hour long fighting knock that, despite sachin outscoring him by 45 runs (he scored 193 runs), dravid was adjudged the man of the match for his 148 runs. dravid backed up his two consecutive hundreds in the series with another one at the oval, this time scoring a double hundred. after england scored 515 runs in the first innings of the fourth test, dravid scored 217 runs to take india to 505. the test and the series ended in a draw. dravid was adjudged man of the match for second consecutive match. dravid amassed 602 runs in the series at an average of 100.33, including three hundreds and a fifty and was adjudged joint man of the series along with vaughan.
he was appointed the vice-captain during 2003 world cup, in which india reached the finals, playing as a wicket-keeper batsman to accommodate an additional batsman, a strategy that worked out well. dravid was appointed the captain for the indian team for 2007 world cup, where india had an unsuccessful campaign.

in august 2002, at headingley stadium, leeds, in the third test against england, he scored 148 in the first innings, leading to an indian win and making him man of the match. his 602-run total in the four-test series against england also got him the man of the series award.
in 2003 2004 season, dravid scored three double centuries: one each against new zealand, australia and pakistan. in the first innings of the second test against australia at adelaide, india reached 85 4 in reply to australia's 556, when dravid and laxman made 303 for the fifth wicket. laxman was dismissed for 148 and dravid went on make 233, at that time the highest score by an indian batsman outside india. he made 72 not out in the second innings, and india won. dravid scored 619 runs in the four-match series against australia with an average of 103.16, winning the man of the series award. during the later part of the season, in ganguly's absence, dravid led india to its first test victory over pakistan at their home in the first test match at multan cricket stadium. at rawalpindi, in the third and final match of the series, dravid made 270 runs, helping india to win the series. during india's unsuccessful tour of england in 2011, in which their 4 0 loss cost them the top rank in test cricket, dravid made three centuries.


=== 2011 tour of englandedit ===
having regained his form on the tour to west indies, where he scored a match-winning hundred in sabina park, jamaica, dravid then toured england in what was billed as the series which would decide the world no. 1 ranking in tests. it would later be hailed as one of his greatest series performances by experts. in the first test at lord's, in reply to england's 474, dravid scored an unbeaten 103, his first hundred at the ground where he debuted in 1996. he received scant support from his teammates as india were bowled out for 286 and lost the test. the 2nd test at trentbridge, nottingham again saw dravid in brilliant form. sent out to open the batting in place of an injured gautam gambhir, he scored his second successive hundred. his 117 though, again came in a losing cause, as a collapse of 6 wickets for 21 runs in the first innings led to a massive defeat by 319 runs. dravid failed in both innings in the third test at birmingham, as india lost by an innings and 242 runs, one of the heaviest defeats in their history. however, he came back brilliantly in the fourth and final match at the oval. again opening the batting in place of gambhir, he scored an unbeaten 146 out of india's total of 300, carrying his bat through the innings. once again, though, his efforts were in vain as india lost the match, completing a 0 4 whitewash. in all, he scored 461 runs in the four matches at an average of 76.83 with three hundreds. he accounted for over 26% of india's runs in the series and was named india's man of the series by england coach andy flower. his performance in the series was met with widespread admiration and was hailed by some as one of his finest ever series


=== retirementedit ===
rahul dravid was dropped from the odi team in 2009, but was selected again for an odi series in england in 2011, surprising even dravid himself since, although he had not officially retired from odi cricket, he had not expected to be recalled. after being selected, he announced that he would retire from odi cricket after the series. he played his last odi innings against england at sophia gardens, cardiff, on 16 september 2011, scoring 69 runs from 79 balls before being bowled by graeme swann. his last limited-overs international match was his debut t20i match; he announced his retirement before playing his first t20i match.
dravid announced his retirement from test and domestic cricket on 9 march 2012, after the 2011 12 tour of australia, but he said that he would captain the rajasthan royals in the 2012 indian premier league. he was the second-highest run scorer and had taken the highest number of catches in test cricket at the time of his retirement.
in july 2014, he played for the mcc side in the bicentenary celebration match at lord's.


== twenty20 careeredit ==
rahul dravid played for royal challengers bangalore in ipl 2008, 2009 and 2010. later he played for rajasthan royals and led it to finals of champions league t20 in 2013, and play-offs of indian premier league in 2013. dravid announced retirement from twenty20 after playing the 2013 champions league twenty20 in sept.-oct 2013.


== personal lifeedit ==
on 4 may 2003 he married vijeta pendharkar, a surgeon from nagpur. they have two children: samit, born in 2005, and anvay, born in 2009. rahul can proficiently speak marathi, hindi, kannada and english.


== playing styleedit ==
dravid is known for his technique, and had been one of the best batsmen for the indian cricket team. in the beginning, he was known as a defensive batsman who should be confined to test cricket, and was dropped from the odi squad due to a low strike rate. however, in a period of his career, he began consistently scoring runs in odis as well, earning him the icc player of the year award. his nickname of 'the wall' in reebok advertisements is now used as his nickname. dravid has scored 36 centuries in test cricket at an average of 53.19; this included five double centuries. in one-dayers, he has an average of 39.49, and a strike rate of 71.22. he is one of the few indians whose test average is better at away than at home, averaging almost five runs more in foreign pitches. as of 23 september 2010, dravid's test average in abroad is 55.53, and his test average at home is 50.76; his odi average abroad is 37.93 and his odi average at home is 43.11. taking those matches in consideration that were won by india, dravid averages 66.34 runs in tests and 50.69 runs in odis.
dravid's sole test wicket was of ridley jacobs in the fourth test match against the west indies during the 2001 2002 series. while he has no pretensions to being a bowler, dravid often kept wicket for india in odis. dravid is now a specialist batsman, averaging 63.51 in matches played since 1 january 2000.
dravid was involved in two of the largest partnerships in odis: a 318-run partnership with sourav ganguly, the first pair to combine for a 300-run partnership, and then a 331-run partnership with sachin tendulkar, which is a world record. he also holds the record for the greatest number of innings played since debut before being dismissed for a duck. his highest scores in odis and tests are 153 and 270 respectively. each of his five double centuries in tests was a higher score than his previous double century (200*, 217, 222, 233, 270).
also, dravid is the current world record holder for the highest percentage of runs scored in matches won under a single captain, where the captain has won more than 20 tests. in the 21 test matches india won under ganguly's captaincy, dravid scored at a record average of 102.84 runs; scoring 2571 runs, with nine hundreds, three of them being double-centuries, and ten fifties in 32 innings. he contributed nearly 23% of the total runs scored by india in those 21 matches, which is almost one run out of every four runs the team scored.

he was named one of the wisden cricketers of the year in 2000. though primarily a defensive batsman, dravid scored 50 runs not out in 22 balls (a strike rate of 227.27) against new zealand in hyderabad on 15 november 2003, the second fastest 50 among indian batsmen. only ajit agarkar's 67 runs of 21 balls is faster than that of dravid.
in 2004, dravid was awarded the padma shri by the government of india. on 7 september 2004, he was awarded the inaugural player of the year award and the test player of the year award by the international cricket council (icc). on 18 march 2006, dravid played his 100th test against england in mumbai.
in 2006, it was announced that he would remain captain of the indian team up to the 2007 world cup in the west indies.
however, after the series against england, he stepped down as the indian captain due to personal reasons. ms dhoni took over as odi captain, whereas anil kumble replaced him in test matches.
in 2007, he was dropped from the indian odi squad following poor series against australia. dravid went back to play for karnataka in the ranji trophy, scoring 218 runs against mumbai.
in 2008, he made 93 runs in the first innings of the perth test, the highest score of the match, to help india win and make the series 1 2. however, he was ignored by selectors for the subsequent one-day tri-series.
after a barren run in test matches in 2008, dravid came under increasing media pressure to retire or be dropped. in the second test against england in mohali, he scored 136 runs, putting on a triple-century stand with gautam gambhir.
after reaching 10,000 test runs milestone, he said,"it's a proud moment for sure. for me, growing up, i dreamt of playing for india. when i look back, i probably exceeded my expectations with what i have done over the last 10 to 12 years. i never had an ambition to do it because i never believed   it is just a reflection of my longevity in the game."
dravid is also one of the two batsmen to score 10,000 runs at a single batting position and is the third highest run scorer in test cricket, next to tendulkar and ponting.


== controversiesedit ==


=== ball-tampering incidentedit ===
in january 2004, dravid was found guilty of ball tampering during an odi with zimbabwe. match referee clive lloyd adjudged the application of an energy sweet to the ball as a deliberate offence, although dravid himself denied this was his intent. lloyd emphasised that television footage caught dravid putting a lozenge on the ball during the zimbabwean innings on tuesday night at the gabba. according to the icc's code of conduct, players are not allowed to apply substances to the ball other than sweat and saliva. dravid was fined half of his match fee.
indian coach john wright came out in defence of dravid, stating that "it was an innocent mistake". wright argued that dravid had been trying to apply saliva to the ball when parts of a losenge he had been chewing stuck to the ball; dravid then tried to wipe it off. icc regulations prevented dravid from commenting about the issue, but former indian captain sourav ganguly also stated that dravid's act was "just an accident".


=== multan declarationedit ===
one of dravid's most debated decisions was taken in march 2004, when he was standing in as the captain for injured sourav ganguly. india's first innings was declared at a point when sachin tendulkar was at 194 runs with 16 overs remaining on day 2. rahul dravid has had a mixed record when leading india in tests. india lost the karachi test in 2006, giving pakistan the series 1 0. however the loss could be put down to several indian batsmen playing badly. in march 2006, india lost the mumbai test, giving england its first test victory in india since 1985, enabling it to draw the series 1 1. the defeat in mumbai was arguably the result of dravid's decision to bowl first on a flat dry pitch, which later deteriorated and ended with an indian collapse in the run chase. coincidentally, it was dravid's 100th test match in which the indians were all out for 100 runs in the second innings. he was criticised by vijay mallya for not picking the team with right balance after his then ipl team royal challengers bangalore finished seventh out of the eight teams that participated in the 2008 season. after india failed to qualify for the final of the dlf cup, dravid, the skipper, was criticised by former all-rounder ravi shastri who said that he was not assertive enough and let greg chappell make too many decisions. when asked for a response, dravid said that shastri, while a 'fair critic', was 'not privy' to the internal decision-making process of the team.


== captaincy recordedit ==


=== test matchesedit ===


=== one day internationalsedit ===


== biographiesedit ==
two biographies have been written on rahul dravid and his career:
rahul dravid   a biography written by vedam jaishankar (isbn 978-81-7476-481-2). publisher: ubspd publications. date: january 2004
the nice guy who finished first written by devendra prabhudesai. publisher: rupa publications. date: november 2005
a collection of articles, testimonials and interviews related to dravid was released by espncricinfo following his retirement. the book was titled rahul dravid: timeless steel.


== other workedit ==


=== commercial endorsementsedit ===
reebok: 1996   present
pepsi: 1997 present
kissan: unknown
castrol: 2001   present
hutch: 2003
karnataka tourism: 2004
max life: 2005   present
bank of baroda: 2005   present
citizen: 2006   present
skyline construction: 2006   present
sansui: 2007
gillette: 2007   present
samsung: 2002   2004
world trade center noida: 2013  present


=== social commitmentsedit ===
children's movement for civic awareness (cmca)
unicef supporter and aids awareness campaign


== see alsoedit ==

list of international cricket centuries by rahul dravid
list of awards and achievements of rahul dravid
indian national cricket captains


== referencesedit ==


== external linksedit ==
official website
player profile: rahul dravid from espncricinfo
player profile: rahul dravid from cricketarchive
player profile: rahul dravid from yahoo! cricket

