MM Sharma to Miller, 1 run, back of a length and jags in, Miller is cramped for room a bit but secures a single through square leg to get off the mark
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, early signs of swing, worked to the leg side
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, Ideal line, angling into the stumps from the left-arm line
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, clipped off the pads, out to midwicket
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, big stride, forward defence. Classical
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, less classical this time, riding his bat Happy Gilmore-style, but defended down the wicket all the same
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, huge appeal as Willey straightens one into the pads but there was a huge stride down the wicket beforehand. No review but encouraging signs for England
Topley to Babar Azam, 2 runs, outside off, a fraction too short and helped through the covers off the back foot, using the natural angle across the right-hander
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, turned into the leg-side, slightly squared up in defence
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, very full, flicked off the pads to fine leg
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, big stride, attempting to negate the swing, for there is a hint
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, crunched into the covers
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, good tight over
Willey to Babar Azam, OUT, scher-wing! Curly-wurly inducker, bending back into the right-hander's pads. That won't be reviewed. Off he goes!
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 leg bye, swing again, but too leg-sided this time. Optimistic appeal
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, forward and blocked to mid-on
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, driven down the ground, well fielded with a slide at mid-on
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, clipped to the leg side
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, up onto the toes, fenced into the point region. Another good over from Willey. One of only six left-arm seamers to take a wicket for England in ODIs. SIX!
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, up onto the toes, flogged down to third man
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, solidly into line
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 wide, down the leg side, the swing takes control as Topley loses control
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, outside off, better line, climbing through to the keeper
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the pads, big appeal, even greater optimism
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed into the covers
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, forward once again, and picked up by the bowler
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, watchful against the swing
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, forward tentatively and pushed to cover
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, angled defence out to midwicket
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, OUT, movement, edged, a thin snick through to Buttler who gathers well and low, and the big fish has been landed! Hafeez, Pakistan's form batsman, is gone for a duck to one that just grazed past his tentative defence
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, well left first-up. Keeping low outside off stump
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, outside off, left alone. England are bossing this contest right now ...
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, wide, surely? No? I've seen those given in Tests ...
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, tighter line, no run this time either
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, perfect line for the left-armer, cramping the right-hander for room, demanding a leave
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, driven without conviction to cover
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, a measured push to the right of mid-off, half a sliding stop but they run for the deflection
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, thumped into the covers with a pleasing tock of willow, but straight to the fielder
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, driven into the covers again
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, forward and pushed into the covers
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, stands tall in defence, worked to mid-on
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, outside off, tight line, left alone. It's a strangely soporific passage of play
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, deep in the crease, defending with a vertical blade
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, outside off, probing length, but a chastened Pakistan line-up aren't even tempted to be aggressive against this pair at the moment. Woakes and the spinners on the other hand ...
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, open-faced glide down to third man
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, back of a length, no width on offer, driven to mid-off
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, crashing cut, a fraction too wide, but Taylor at point snaffles with a full-length dive (which, admittedly, isn't a lot of length)
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, squared up a touch on leg stump, defended
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, FOUR, too wide, flogged through point on the up, and this time Taylor has no chance to cut it off
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, pushed back in the crease, up on the toes, defended
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, thumped into the deep, Topley is the cover sweeper
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, full length, attacking the pads, defended
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, short, pulled, not remotely middled, but dribbles into the leg side
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, forward and defended to cover
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, very full, a hint of lateral movement, calmly pushed to mid-on
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, on the pads, curling further leg-side, but worked back down the track
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, outside off, this one holds its line as a wafty flat-footed drive catches nothing but thin air
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, smashed into the covers, a fine one-handed pick-up and very nearly a run-out! A direct hit would have been very tight
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, defended back down the track
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, tight and probing, nothing for the batsman to do but bide his time
Topley to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, driven up to mid-on but that's a maiden.
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, a watchful start from bowler and batsman
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, slower ball, tight to the stumps, defended to mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, advancing down the track, the first sign of aggression, but Woakes saw him coming and followed him
Woakes to Azhar Ali, FOUR, driven, and threaded supremely through wide mid-on. A fraction too tight to the leg side from a full length, and a full face of the bat met that one
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, on the pads and flicked out to square leg
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed, OUT, short, swiped, but that pull shot comes off the splice as if socked at with a wet welly, and mid-on completes a simple diving catch to put the skids under Pakistan's sttempts at a recovery
Rashid to Azhar Ali, no run, tossed onto a good length, defended
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, slightly leg-sided, clipped square
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, full length, turning away, punched off the back foot to cover
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, poked into the covers again
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, decent stride, patted back to the bowler
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, thumped out to the deep, but the field is well spread and few gaps on offer
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, short and splice-rattling, worked into the leg-side, a touch uncomfortably
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, fuller length, defended on the front foot
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, hustled defence, attacking the stumps again
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, tight line, watchful defence
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, wider on the crease, attacking the stumps, pushed up to the bowler
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, a single into the covers
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, forward and defended
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, swished into the covers
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, shorter, flatter, almost flipper-esque from Rashid! It looked like a horrid long-hop but it scuttled through, and after a long deliberation, the finger goes up, very reluctantly! But they are reviewing... it could have been missing leg ... and it surely was!
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, full-length, and pushed into the leg-side
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 2 runs, on the pads, worked off the back foot to square leg
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, driven on the up to point
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, full, straining for non-existent swing, pushed calmly to mid-on
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, dabbed down to third man
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, turned off the toes to fine leg
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, up onto the toes, dabbed down to third man, and they give away a single with an unnecssary shy at the stumps that deflects into no-man's land
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 leg bye, a pre-meditated gallop down the pitch and a hopped nurdle to third man, attempted leg glance but it clips the knee-roll and beats the keeper
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, another single to the cause
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, solid stride forward
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, back and across, clipped to midwicket
Rashid to Azhar Ali, no run, nurdled from off to leg, but can't beat the fielder
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, swept, from outside off, into space behind square
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, tossed up, driven to cover
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, a firmer drive this time, but well intercepted
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, slightly short, short-arm-pulled out to midwicket
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, whisked off the hip from back of a length
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, worked into the leg-side again
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, into the leg side again
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, OUT, short, pulled, Taylor grabs at midwicket! A horrid wellied pull, right off the splice, no timing or placement and England have got their eyes on the series-levelling prize
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, full on off stump, driven to long off
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 2 runs, goes down early for a neat paddle sweep, gets it through short fine leg
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, very full, drilled to cover
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, comes forward to drive, plays it into the pitch and back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 wide, big spin outside off, started wide and called wide
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, nicely bowled! That's a good leg-break, draws him forward and beats the outside edge with some spin
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, beaten again! This time it's a slightly shorter delivery and he's trying to play off the back foot, the ball skids on
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, driven carefully to mid-off
Woakes to Azhar Ali, OUT, after the drought for Woakes comes the flood! Azhar drags on as he chases a delivery with a hint of width. It's an off-cutter which takes the bottom edge
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, short outside off, loops over the top edge as Sarfraz tries to upper cut to third man
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, full at off stump, driven to cover
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, back of a length, 86mph/139kph, defended
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, full outside off, he opens the face down to third man
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, pushed out to deep cover
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, nicely bowled, full at middle, played into the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, swept from outside off to deep backward square
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, full, driven to deep cover
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, there's a googly, deflects off the pads into the leg side
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, tossed up, more air this time, comes forward and drives through the off side
Woakes to Mohammad Rizwan, 2 runs, walks into a solid forward push which beats the cover ring and is wide of the sweeper
Woakes to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, nips back a touch from outside off and is defended
Woakes to Mohammad Rizwan, FOUR, a short delivery and it's a lesser-spotted boundary, quickly onto with a pull behind square which bisects the two men out
Woakes to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, full and straight again, clipped to mid-on
Woakes to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, low full toss, clipped through midwicket but only costs a single
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, driven to deep cover
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, swept from around off stump, a very full delivery, to deep square
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, opens the face to a full ball outside off and finds short third man
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, big appeal for lbw! It's another googly. Given not out and Rashid has persuaded Morgan to review it. Might be spinning too much. And it's orange on clipping leg stump. Very tight.
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, nice bowling, that was another wrong 'un, touch shorter and defended
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, paddled from outside off behind square on the leg side
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, full and straight, forced through straight midwicket
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, pushed into midwicket
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, low full toss which is pushed down the ground
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, full outside off, pushed to the covers
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, straight delivery which is nudged to leg
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, comes forward, pushed into the point region
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, uses his feet but can only find cover...Moeen races through his first over
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, goes deep in the crease and drives to mid-on
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, sweeps again, from outside off, between deep midwicket and deep square
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, more flight, full on the stumps, driven to cover
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, a little shorter, it's a googly, but he picks out backward point
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, drives back to the bowler
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, defended from middle and leg, runs into the leg side and they can nab a quick single
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, full and straight, driven to midwicket
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, played straighter this time and finds space down the ground
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, starts a little wider, hint of turn, pushed to cover
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 leg bye, appeal for lbw appeal as he goes for a sweep, seemed to be heading leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, a touch quicker and flatter, pushed to midwicket
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, drives to point
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, another lbw shout, full on leg stump, probably pitched outside
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, defended from middle and leg
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, brings out the sweep and gets it behind square but England won't worry about singles
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, 2 runs, paddles a low full toss through fine leg, deep square is able to scoot around the boundary rope
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, cuts and misses
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, plays with the spin through midwicket
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, down the pitch, nearly yorks himself, drills the ball back to Moeen
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, 2 runs, swept away very fine, more work in the deep for Topley who sprints around and then slides
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, pushed into midwicket and can't find a gap
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, full outside off, driven to cover inside the circle
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, full and straight, can't beat midwicket, the pressure keeps building on Pakistan
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, goes back in the crease and punches down the ground
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, pushed into the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, on leg stump, tapped away
Rashid to Mohammad Rizwan, OUT, it had to come, really. The innings was going nowhere. He goes back to try and play through the off side, skids on, gets a bottom edge into the stumps. Deserved reward for Rashid
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, very full, dug out back to the bowler
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, comes forward, drives into the covers, was an easy single but Sarfraz didn't want it. Nearly a run out
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, flicked to square leg
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, pushed down the ground
Ali to Anwar Ali, no run, leaves this alone as it spins towards leg stump, deflects off the pad
Ali to Anwar Ali, no run, leading edge into the off side as he aims to leg, but it lands short of cover
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 run, manages to beat the bowler and cover with a drive down the ground
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, that's a very firmly struck sweep and it's placed perfectly in the gap at deep square
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, appeal for lbw, looks pretty good as it straightens, but given not out
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, played into the leg side
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, pushed gently into the covers
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, dragged down short and slow outside off, but he finds cover
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, some good spin there for Rashid, Sarfraz opens the face and plays to cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 3 byes, that beats everything...the edge and the keeper as he goes through Buttler's legs for some byes
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 run, flicked through the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, driven from outside off down the ground
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 leg bye, tickled behind square...pad, I think
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, played to the leg side, Moeen gets across and fields himself
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, tucked through square leg
Ali to Anwar Ali, FOUR, a bottom edge goes past the stumps, some significant spin for Moeen, aiming to force it off the back foot
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 leg bye, round the wicket, full outside off, driven to deep cover
Topley to Anwar Ali, 1 leg bye, glanced down to long leg
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, angled into the pads again, deflected to long leg
Topley to Anwar Ali, 1 run, fuller, coming in with the angle, takes an inside edge behind square
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, full at middle and off, dug out into the covers
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, slower ball, some width outside off, driven to deep cover
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, round the wicket, worked into the leg side
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 run, off the pads out to deep midwicket
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, leading edge into the off side aiming for midwicket but it falls safely
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, flicked off the toes to deep midwicket
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 run, deep into the crease and then nudges to the on side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, touch shorter, he goes back and drives but picks out cover
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, full outside off, a slower ball, guided to backward point
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, clubbed from off stump to mid on
Topley to Anwar Ali, 1 run, worked off the pads to long leg
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, another slower one, full outside off, dabbed into the covers
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, driven sweetly through the covers, nicely onto the front foot, placed wide of the sweeper
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, opens the face and runs it down to third man
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, down the track, battered hard and flat over midwicket. That's the way to do it
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 4 byes, into position for the sweep, doesn't make contact but Buttler is nutmegged outside the off stump
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, up onto the toes to defend
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 3 runs, crunched into the covers, up on the toes, flashed from way outside leg
Ali to Anwar Ali, no run, round the wicket, onto a good length, worked back to the bowler
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, slower ball, outside off, bunny-hops through to the keeper with a waft of the bat to send it on its way
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, up to the toes, punched to mid-on, a wild shy comes in
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, on a good length once again
Topley to Anwar Ali, 1 run, slower ball, nibbles back in from outside off, nudged down to third man
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, outside off, fenced out to third man
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, cunning variations, tight line, impressive work from young Master Topley
Ali to Anwar Ali, 2 runs, slapped, that was an attempted drive but it's a fat edge down to third man
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 run, on the toes, clipped to midwicket
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 wide, speared down the leg-side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, gave himself masses of room and almost couldn't reach his defensive wipe off off stump
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, punted out to cow corner, picked up on the bounce. It's very flat out there
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, manipulated out to midwicket
Ali to Anwar Ali, 1 wide, attempted hoick over midwicket, but the intent couldn't match the leg-side line
Ali to Anwar Ali, 2 leg byes, very tight on leg stump. Too tight
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, on the pads, worked out to square leg
Willey to Anwar Ali, no run, pushed back onto the stumps, defended into the covers
Willey to Anwar Ali, 1 run, too wide from Willey and Buttler's glove saves a deflected four
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, forward and blocked back down the track
Willey to Anwar Ali, no run, cut into the covers, Willey pulls his length back as the batsman advances
Willey to Anwar Ali, 1 run, more sound than fury there as a wild leg-side wipe dribbles for a single
Ali to Anwar Ali, no run, defended into the leg side
Ali to Anwar Ali, no run, nurdled to leg
Ali to Anwar Ali, SIX, battered, hard and flat, over long-on! That's the way to keep the hopes alive!
Ali to Anwar Ali, no run, pushed into the off side
Ali to Anwar Ali, OUT, smashed into the leg-side once again, but this time it isn't properly timed, a low full toss, and Woakes steadies himself under the lights to extract the obdurate Anwar!
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, flicked into the leg-side, another over ticked off
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, on the pads, worked into the leg-side, Sarfraz continues his lone hand
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, teased down to third man
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, forward and defended
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, slower ball, Wahab waits and waits and tickles it into the covers
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, slapped up and over the covers, a fraction of room to swing the arms
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, low full toss, bunted into the leg side
Ali to Wahab Riaz, no run, a smothered appeal, sliding down leg
Ali to Wahab Riaz, 2 runs, attempted sweep, out to the leg side
Ali to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, down the track, attempted wipe out to midwicket. It's a successful wipe, insofar as it gets there ... but not especially quickly ...
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run
Ali to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, defended on the back foot, into the covers
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, big stride forward, slapped into the covers, that is a well-earned fifty for Sarfraz, who has been the difference between defeat and humiliation this evening
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, short and attempted pull out to midwicket
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, clunked through midwicket, finds the gap and this time there's no cutting it off
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, short, and spanked out to midwicket but the sweeper is in place to gather this one
Willey to Wahab Riaz, OUT, a wipe across the line, a spiralling top-edge, a simple plop of a catch for Buttler
Willey to Yasir Shah, 1 run, blocked out to square leg
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, angled across the right-hander, slapped into the covers
Woakes to Yasir Shah, no run, forward and driven to mid-off
Woakes to Yasir Shah, 1 run, slower ball, just held back a click, on a good off-stump line. A direct hit would have been out as the single is stolen
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, yorker, very full, outside off, through to the keeper
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, battered, hard into the covers. Hales intercepts the boundary
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, sweet timing, a beautiful square drive. A less beautiful full-length dive to make his ground as he comes back for two
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, thumped out to deep cover again. He's timing it well and seeing it even better
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, attempted sweep, struck outside the line
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, round the wicket, another attempted sweep thumps into the front pad. Well outside off stump
Topley to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, slower ball, a lot of them about. Wiped out to mid-on
Topley to Yasir Shah, no run, nothing doing there
Topley to Yasir Shah, FOUR, full toss, walloped on the up and clean through the covers. That will keep the embers glowing!
Topley to Yasir Shah, 1 run, outside off, dabbed down to third man
Woakes to Yasir Shah, 1 run, attractively eased out to square leg for another notch on the scoreboard. Holding the flourish on that leg glance
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, forward, pushed to cover, Sarfraz is already halfway down so why not make it a run?
Woakes to Yasir Shah, no run, tidy drive, but straight to the fielder
Woakes to Yasir Shah, no run, short and through to the keeper
Woakes to Yasir Shah, 1 run, slower-ball bouncer, pulled round the corner without much timing
Woakes to Sarfraz Ahmed, OUT, lovely line, a cutter, nipping back in as Sarfraz attempts a back-foot drive but is cramped for room by the grip off the surface, and Buttler tidies up
Topley to Yasir Shah, SIX, there's six of them! Slower ball, too short, Yasir was anchored on the back foot and that has travelled way over midwicket!
Topley to Yasir Shah, no run, another big wind-up, but no contact this time, other than ball on thigh pad
Topley to Yasir Shah, 1 run, flat-batted into the leg-side again
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, thumped into the leg side
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, OUT, yorker! That's the way to bring down skyscrapers, denotate them at the foundations ... Irfan's timbers tumble, and it's 1-1 with two to play!
Steyn to RG Sharma,  no run,  gentle outswinger to begin outside the off stump. Rohit thinks of playing it before withdrawing his bat
Steyn to RG Sharma,  no run,  some more swing away from Rohit. On a fuller length and moving towards a sixth-stump line, Rohit times his drive beautifully but straight to cover
Steyn to RG Sharma,  no run,  pulls his length back immediately. On a good length with the same gentle outswing, Rohit flirts at the ball and is beaten
Steyn to RG Sharma,  no run,  a bit too wide from Steyn this time, too full and too wide but Rohit is happy to leave
Steyn to RG Sharma,  no run,  again wider outside off, Rohit watches the swing carefully and shoulders arms.
Steyn to RG Sharma,  1 run,  nicely played, pushed wider outside off and Rohit pushes a drive through cover, AB runs around swiftky from mid-off and fires a throw at the non-strikers end. Would have been interesting with a direct hit
Rabada to RG Sharma,  no run,  back of a length on middle and off, Rohit plays it watchfully with soft hands towards square leg. Dhawan sets off thinking a single is there on offer and is sent back in time
Rabada to RG Sharma,  2 runs,  delectable timing there. Just leans on a drive and pushes the fuller length through cover. Lightning outfield but AB pulls it back
Rabada to RG Sharma,  no run,  good length there. Slightly fuller than a good length outside off, Rohit leaves
Rabada to RG Sharma,  OUT,  cleaned im up. What a strike. What an important strike that is. Too full and Rohit is slightly late on the flick. He is beaten for pace as the ball clips his pads and takes the off stump out. Huge wicket for SA.
Rabada to Rahane,  no run,  a bit too full again outside off, Rahane drives to cover with not much feet movement
Rabada to Rahane,  no run,  better stride this time from Rahane. Fuller length towards off stump, Rahane plays a good-looking on drive to mid-on
Steyn to Dhawan,  no run,  excellent delivery, back of a length, hitting the deck hard. Dhawan fends it off awkwardly but the ball lands short of point
Steyn to Dhawan,  1 run,  hmm, not a great run there. Good length on off, Dhawan plays it with soft hands towards cover and calls for the run. Rahane responds immediately and makes a full-length dive too but would have still been interesting with a direct-hit
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  good length, not much swing now. Well outside off though and Rahane gets a good stride forward and leaves
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  almost a repeat. Just a bit shorter and wide, would have been cut under different circumstances but Rahane watchfully lets it go
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  good stride again, fuller from Steyn, zoning in on that off stump line. Rahane presents the full face of the bat to block
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  good length outside off, Rahane puts in a giant front-foot stride to shoulder his arms.
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  just a little bit of inswing, Good length swinging back in from outside off. Dhawan looks to play his trademark punchy square drive but the movement takes the inside edge to square leg
Rabada to Dhawan,  FOUR,  what a shot! You may not see a better cover drive. Not that full from Rabada but a tad too wide, Dhawan stays in his crease and creams the drive through extra cover
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  better comeback. Back of a length on middle, Dhawan pats the ball to mid-on
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  did that keep low or was Dhawan a bit too late on it? Fullish and wide, Dhawan is beaten on his attempted drive
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  nicely bowled again, swinging in on a fullish length but aimed at off and middle, Dhawan plays the ball with the swing to mid-on
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  huge appeal, not given. A bit too much doubt maybe. Good length on middle, swinging in and striking Dhawan slightly high in front of middle and leg
Steyn to Rahane,  FOUR,  off the mark in a rather stylish method. Full again and swinging away from Rahane who throws his hands at it and gets the ball well over cover. Not much feet movement
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  Steyn immediately corrects himself. Back of a length and closer to off, Rahane prods at it defensively with no feet movement and is comprehensively beaten.
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  and again, swinging away from Rahane, just inside that tramline. Rahane looks to cut again but the technique is not there, minimal feet movement and is beaten again
Steyn to Rahane,  FOUR,  its either hit or miss at the moment. And this was hit, smashed away in the air over cover again. Just a tad wide and he did not bother keeping that down
Steyn to Rahane,  FOUR,  better stroke, more confident shot. Steyn corrects that line by bringing the ball closer to middle, and that isn't the line to this man. Rahane easily flicks off his pads through midwicket
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  probling delivery towards off and middle, Rahane looks to find that gap again but clips it in the air, but lands short of mid-on
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  excellent variation. A well-directed bouncer! Aimed at Dhawan's badge, who sways out of the line in time
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  ominous signs these. Excellently driven but straight to extra cover, a bit too full there was Rabada
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  drags back his length a touch, good length and outside off. Dhawan stands in his crease and punches the drive to extra cover again
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  attempted yorker and it is well-executed. But a bit too wide outside off, Dhawan digs the yorker out to point
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  and another! Good stuff this. Hustling Dhawan for pace too. But this one is aimed at off and middle, Dhawan gets his feet out of the way and squeezes the ball to cover
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  overpitched now on middle, Dhawan drives nicely but hits it back straight at the bowler.
Morkel to Rahane,  1 wide,  poor lines, short and wide. Rahane throws his hands at it again but is beaten by the bounce this time. Not bothering to keep these shots down. Not bad shot selection to be honest
Morkel to Rahane,  no run,  more respectfully played by Rahane, but a much better delivery by Morkel. Good length on off which is defended into the off side
Morkel to Rahane,  1 run,  important stroke that. We have not seen enough of that so far. Rahane just opens the face of the bat and dabs the ball to third man
Morkel to Dhawan,  no run,  143.7 kph, hitting the deck hard. Back of a length outside off, Dhawan plays the ball with sift hands towards point but there is no single there
Morkel to Dhawan,  no run,  good pacey stuff from Morkel. Nice lines too. Dhawan watchfully defends to the off side
Morkel to Dhawan,  1 leg bye,  missed opportunity there. Drifts on Dhawan's pads who looks to flick but is struck above the knee roll. They will get a leg bye
Morkel to Rahane,  1 wide,  again strays in line to the right-hander. Rahane leaves the ball as the ball drifts down leg
Morkel to Rahane,  no run,  slower delivery, 126 kph, may have been cross-seam too with the objective to finish off the over. Rahane gets forward and blocks
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  slightly shorter but wide and Dhawan chops his cut to point. Have to put these opportunities away
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  141 kph, full and drifting on Dhawan's pads who is beaten on his attempted flick. the ball rolls to slip off his pads
Rabada to Dhawan,  no run,  fullish length but angled across the left-hander. Dhawan thinks of flashing at that but eventually lets the ball go through to de Kock
Rabada to Dhawan,  FOUR,  beats the fielder and that is four. This was too full and too wide and this opportunity is punished. Dhawan creams the drive through cover, past a diving AB at mid-off
Rabada to Dhawan,  1 run,  much much better from Dhawan. Not a bad ball at all, good length outside off, Dhawan bunts the ball to AB at mid-off and calls immediately. They get it easily
Rabada to Rahane,  1 run,  another single. Good stuff now from the pair. Fuller than a good length on middle, Rahane works the ball towards midwicket and there is an easy single to be had
Morkel to Rahane,  FOUR,  good shot selection from Rahane. Keeping a tall Morkel down is arduously hard and therefore he chooses the safer option and goes over cover. Just a bit too short there
Morkel to Rahane,  no run,  fuller than a good length from Morkel but is too wide, may have been an offcutter. Rahane cuts nicely but to point.
Morkel to Rahane,  1 run,  again wide, the length is full though and Rahane steers the ball to third man off the open face
Morkel to Dhawan,  no run,  slower offcutter again at 128 ks, Dhawan is early into the flick but lands a few metres in front of square leg
Morkel to Dhawan,  no run,  concerted effort not to offer Dhawan room outside off, tucking him for the length he wants. Dhawan can only clip the leg side-ish delivery to square leg
Morkel to Dhawan,  FOUR,  excellent shot, very clever thinking too. With AB at a wide mid-off, all he needed to do was play a routine drive through mid-off and he executed nicely.
Rabada to Rahane,  no run,  drifting down leg and the appeal is withdrawn before it gets loud. Good length and Rahane misses out on some runs through leg
Rabada to Rahane,  no run,  wristily done but straight to square leg. A very Tendulkar-esque shot that. Works the ball from off to the man at square leg
Rabada to Rahane,  no run,  good-looking drive, Rahane pushes the fuller length to cover
Rabada to Rahane,  no run,  inconsistent lines but the margin of difference is not a lot on these balls. Good length on off and Rahane stands tall and works the ball to square leg
Rabada to Rahane,  FOUR,  the line is similar but its the difference in length that makes the shot possible. Short and sits up for Rahane to swivel-pull through backward square leg
Rabada to Rahane,  1 run,  another nice shot. Back of a length, climbing on Rahane who arches his back and runs the ball down to third man to keep strike
Morkel to Rahane,  no run,  better from Morkel. Reverting back to his usual back of a length, splice-jarring. Rahane watchfully defends off the back foot
Morkel to Rahane,  1 run,  well played from Rahane. Morkel sticks to that length, maybe a tad shorter also. Rahane sways out of the line and checks his pull to fine leg. Kept his eyes on the ball as he controlled that shot
Morkel to Dhawan,  1 run,  short and wide, cut out to third man
Morkel to Rahane,  1 run,  runs another one down to third man off the back foot
Morkel to Dhawan,  no run,  151.7 kph, extremely quick stuff here from Morkel. Dhawan is late on the drive but gets it out to mid-on
Morkel to Dhawan,  1 run,  138 kph now. Back of a length on leg and Dhawan nudges the ball off his hips to fine leg
Duminy to Dhawan,  FOUR,  loosener, short outside off, rank long-hop. Dahwan rocks back early and pulls uppishly but over midwicket for four
Duminy to Dhawan,  1 run,  full toss now outside off, Dhawan remains calm as he drives to long-off for one
Duminy to Rahane,  1 run,  another full toss, this one much lower. Rahane drives to long-on
Duminy to Dhawan,  no run,  lands it nicely this time, no spin. Dhawan chops this back onto his pads from outside off
Duminy to Dhawan,  1 run,  too short and wide, Dhawan cuts out to sweeper cover
Duminy to Rahane,  2 runs,  excellent fielding to follow an excellent shot. Too short from JP, Rahane hangs back and punches a drive past cover. Behardien at sweeper cover never gives up, even on this outfield and hauls it back in. Sensational stuff
Morkel to Dhawan,  1 run,  144 ks, short again, aimed at Dhawan's ribs, he looks to pull but the ball hurries onto him as he can only gove it down to fine leg
Morkel to Rahane,  1 run,  Morkel persists with that back of a length, Rahane sticks to his steer to third man
Morkel to Dhawan,  OUT,  soft dismissal. Loss in concentration there. Slower offcutter outside off, Dhawan just chips the ball to short cover. JP Duminy is surprised as he takes it. But that was a deceitful change in pace from Morkel. After all that pace, he goes slower and full which results in Dhawan going through the stroke much earlier
Morkel to Kohli,  no run,  142 ks, hits the deck hard outside off, Kohli sways out of the line and lets the ball go.
Morkel to Kohli,  no run,  fuller length now outside off, Kohli gets a front foot stride and prods at the ball with soft hands. The ball rolls off the outside edge to second slip
Morkel to Kohli,  no run,  good length again, just that line where Kohli has found so much trouble in the past. He stays on the back foot and guides this to point
Duminy to Rahane,  1 run,  shorter delivery, spinning into Rahane who rocks back and drills to long-on. Easy single
Duminy to Kohli,  1 run,  overpitched now outside the off stump. Kohli plays a nice on-drive to long-on to get off the mark
Duminy to Rahane,  1 run,  82 ks, short and wide, poor stuff this from JP. Has not settled into any kind of troublesome length yet. Rahane uppishly cuts to the sweeper
Duminy to Kohli,  1 run,  fuller length on off, Virat works the ball with the spin to deep midwicket
Duminy to Rahane,  no run,  midwicket gets around to cut this one off. Fuller and clipped to that man
Duminy to Rahane,  1 run,  slower and full, better stuff from Duminy. Rahane opens the face of the bat to get the ball wide of third man, towards point
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  lands it perfectly on off, Rahane gets forward to block
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  too short now, Rahane smashes a pull to deep midwicket
Imran Tahir to Kohli,  1 run,  nudged off his pads towards deep midwicket
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  leg side-ish again, Rahane works the ball to deep square leg off his pads
Imran Tahir to Kohli,  no run,  much slower through the air, and extracts some spin too. Kohli hangs back and defends to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Kohli,  1 run,  bottom-handed power there from Kohli. Too full and muscled to long-on with those hands
Steyn to Kohli,  no run,  good length on a fifth-stump line. Kohli gets behind the line of the ball and defends with a lot of intent to cover
Steyn to Kohli,  2 runs,  nice shot and he forces the second with some terrific running. He works the ball past point and runs the first hard, and Tahir at third man fumbles. and back they com
Steyn to Kohli,  no run,  solidly blocked off the back foot, 144 ks.
Steyn to Kohli,  no run,  nice drive but straight to cover. Not much feet movement though, he could have got so much more forward to that
Steyn to Kohli,  1 run,  drives again through cover with no feet movement. Not a greats hot. It was full too, but slightly wide and Kohli checks his push
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  137.7 ks, full and a fifth-stump line, Rahane drives nicely again but hits the fielder again
Imran Tahir to Kohli,  1 run,  bit of flight on the pads, he tucks it away to deep midwicket for one
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  shorter and flatter just outside off, he pushes it back
Imran Tahir to Kohli,  1 run,  flattish on off stump again, Kohli goes back to help it to long on
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  lunges forward and defends the fuller delivery into the covers
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  even fuller on off and middle, flicked down to long on for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,  1 run,  full toss is also pushed down to long on for one
Steyn to Kohli,  1 run,  pretty straight delivery from Steyn with a scrambled seam and Kohli pushes it with a full face to mid-on for one
Steyn to Rahane,  no run,  fullish on the pads, Rahane looks to flick and misses. Takes it on the pad
Steyn to Rahane,  2 runs,  slightly straighter on middle, Rahane flicks this time in the gap between deep square leg and fine leg for two
Steyn to Rahane,  1 run,  angling in a bit from outside off, Rahane angles the bat late and guides it to third man for one
Steyn to Kohli,  1 run,  fullish outside off, driven down nicely to mid-off for one
Steyn to Rahane,  1 run, OUT,  dropped at mid-off but there's a run out, what a horrible mix up, the two batsmen end up at non-striker's end! Kohli is out and he's absolutely livid! Rahane drove the ball down uppishly and in the air, Behardien leapt in the air and got both hands but it was a tough chance and it went down. The batsmen watch that and take one, then Kohli sprints back for the second while Rahane holds his hand up to say no but Kohli wants the run. Both are at the same end and the bails are taken off by the keeper. Kohli did make it on time and he was running to the danger end so looks like there was a run there
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  fullish on the stumps, pushed on the leg side
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  on the pads a little bit and it's tucked to the leg side for one
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  full and outside off, driven down easily to long-off
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  full and a bit wide, driven straight to cover by Rahane
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  flighted and full on middle stump, Rahane drives it nicely to long on
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  he comes down the track to negate the turn and pushes it back. Tahir misfields so they sneak in a run
Behardien to Dhoni,  1 run,  starts with back of length on the pads, deflected towards backward square leg for one
Behardien to Rahane,  no run,  pretty full outside off, driven straight to cover off the front foot
Behardien to Rahane,  1 run,  bit slower and on length outside off, driven to sweeper cover for one
Behardien to Dhoni,  2 runs,  short of length outside off and Dhoni nudges it towards deep point in the gap for two
Behardien to Dhoni,  no run,  much straighter on middle and leg, Dhoni defends it back
Behardien to Dhoni,  no run,  bit too full outside off, Dhoni connects the drive but finds cover
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  fullish on the pads, flicked nicely to deep square leg for one
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  comes down for the straight ball and tucks to square leg, he looks at Rahane who responds for the quick single
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  lunges forward and defends the ball towards point
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  full and flighted on middle, clipped straight to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  turns the googly in from off stump, Rahane helps it to midwicket and is sent back for the single
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  1 run,  on middle and leg, Rahane falls back this time and helps it to fine leg for one
Morkel to Rahane,  1 run,  starts with a slightly slower one at 123kph outside off, Rahane chops it to third man
Morkel to Dhoni,  2 runs,  shuffles across to the off side and taps the ball with the angle behind square on the leg side, and he runs like a 20-year old for two
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 run,  wider outside off now and he punches it to sweeper cover for one
Morkel to Rahane,  FOUR,  he's ramped that right over the keeper, in fact it's gone to the leg side and that's a fifty for Rahane! The short ball was coming in with the angle, and he ramped it up and over so late that it went to the on side
Morkel to Rahane,  no run,  just short of length outside off, defends it to point for one
Morkel to Rahane,  no run,  124kph, slower outside off and full, he blocks it towards point and there's no run
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  no run,  comes down again and pushes the ball to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  uses his feet again and pushes the fuller ball to long-on for one
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  no run,  full on the stumps now, clipped to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Rahane,  OUT,  he's bowled him round the legs! Tahir has taken off and Rahane can't believe it, he's still on the crease and is asking the umpires now. The umpires refer it to the third umpire. Rahane was sweeping the ball which pitched outside leg, but he misses and the ball turned just enough to clip the leg stump
Imran Tahir to Raina,  no run,  stays back and helps the ball with the turn to leg
Imran Tahir to Raina,  no run,  unleashes the googly and Raina presses forward to block it back
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 run,  he bowls the short one around off and Dhoni hops back to defend it softly to leg for a quick one
Morkel to Raina,  1 wide,  shuffles across towards off, but it does down leg and is called a wide. Morkel has his hands on the head because it was close to leg stump
Morkel to Raina,  no run,  this one goes just over the stumps! Raina shuffled across again, expecting the short ball to help it to fine leg, and missed again
Morkel to Raina,  no run,  just short of length outside off, it's defended into the covers
Morkel to Raina,  OUT,  he's caught down the leg side, it was a short ball after all! Raina kept shuffling towards the off side, Morkel kept bowling them short and this time Raina was strangled down the leg side and even got a faint edge and QDK takes a good diving catch. The umpires check for a no ball and it's fine, Raina walks back
Morkel to Patel,  no run,  short ball with some angle, Axar misses the defence and takes it on the body
Morkel to Patel,  1 run,  back of length now on the body again, tucked to backward square leg easily to get off the mark
Imran Tahir to Patel,  no run,  drifts it in a bit around off, Axar lunges forward to defend and it takes the outside edge
Imran Tahir to Patel,  no run
Imran Tahir to Patel,  no run,  pushes forward to defend the turning ball to the off side
Imran Tahir to Patel,  no run,  slightly full on off and he pushes it back to Tahir
Imran Tahir to Patel,  no run,  slightly slower through the air on middle and leg, tucked to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Patel,  1 run,  single off the last ball as it's pitched outside off and Axar drives it down to long off
Rabada to Patel,  no run,  length delivery around the off stump, defends it into the covers
Rabada to Patel,  no run,  run-out chance! Axar tucked the ball off the pads to backward square leg and takes off for one, MSD says no but Axar is a bit lazy to come back. Had it been a direct hit, Axar was out
Rabada to Patel,  no run,  slightly short on leg, pulled straight to backward square leg again
Rabada to Patel,  1 run,  outside off now and he drives on the up for a thick edge to third man
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  short ball angled in, hal-pulled to the leg side tentatively
Rabada to Dhoni,  FOUR,  towards the leg side now and Dhoni cashes in by pulling it late, it goes fine and fine enough to go for four. Something to cheer about for the crowd
Duminy to Patel,  no run,  84kph, pretty straight on middle and leg, Axar defends to leg
Duminy to Patel,  1 run,  fuller on the pads and it's driven down to long on for one
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  comes forward a bit and tucks the ball from off to midwicket
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 run,  short and flat around off, Dhoni goes back and punches it to long on
Duminy to Patel,  no run,  pretty flat towards the off stump from round the wicket, Axar defends it back
Duminy to Patel,  1 run,  fuller and towards leg, driven down to long-on for one
Steyn to Patel,  no run,  just outside off and inside edge hits Axar's back pad
Steyn to Patel,  no run,  on the pads now, clipped to the leg side but straight to the fielder
Steyn to Patel,  no run,  short ball, he pulls and misses. Didn't time the shot properly and took it on the body, near the abdomen
Steyn to Patel,  no run,  pretty full outside off, Axar drives nicely to mid-off off the front foot
Steyn to Patel,  no run,  cramps him up for room by pitching it on middle and leg, Axar defends it back
Steyn to Patel,  1 run,  slightly slower and short of length outside off, Axar pushes it towards mid-off for one
Duminy to Patel,  no run,  fullish on the stumps and driven down firmly, JPD dives to his left to get a hand to it
Duminy to Patel,  1 run,  bit of flight outside off, driven wider of the bowler now to long-off
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  turns it in from outside off, Dhoni stays back and defends it to the bowler
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 run,  on middle stump, Axar puts his front foot forward and defends it to midwicket
Duminy to Patel,  no run
Duminy to Patel,  SIX,  bit full outside off and Axar has lofted it in the air with an inside-out drive, don't think he middled that but it has enough power and falls wide of the long off fielder. That's gone all the way actually, six runs!
Steyn to Dhoni,  no run,  beaten outside off! What a teasing line that was outside off, Dhoni played just inside the line of the ball as it beat his drive
Steyn to Dhoni,  1 run,  towards the pads now and it's helped to fine leg for one
Steyn to Patel,  OUT,  loud appeal for lbw and Steyn pumps his fists as the finger goes up! Slightly back of length ball on leg stump, it was headed towards the leg stump as Axar tried to clip it to leg but was trapped on the back foot. Looks like it pitched right on the leg stump line, not outside, and Aleem Dar was the umpire not Kulkarni if you were wondering. Axar was a bit on his toes and the ball hit him just above the knee roll
Steyn to Kumar,  1 wide,  goes towards the off side a bit as the ball goes down leg for a wide
Steyn to Kumar,  no run,  back of length outside off ad it's pushed to mid-off
Steyn to Kumar,  no run,  on length outside off and Bhuvi defends it into the covers
Steyn to Kumar,  no run,  short ball at 140.7kph to end the over outside off and Bhuvi sways out of the line to let it go
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  comes down the track to whip it to leg and takes it on the pad
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 run,  fuller delivery now and it's easily pushed down to long-on for one
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  goes back and punches the shorter ball back to JPD
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  much wider outside off, Bhuvi goes back and pushes the ball to cover
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  lunges forward this time and defends it solidly with the bat close to his pad
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  not much turn outside off and Bhuvi defends it back from deep in the crease
Steyn to Dhoni,  no run,  angled into the pads, Dhoni helps the ball to backward square leg
Steyn to Dhoni,  no run,  on the middle stump now, Dhoni waits for it and defends it to mid-on
Steyn to Dhoni,  2 runs,  outside off and Dhoni times that square drive really well to beat backward point by a fraction of a second and gets two
Steyn to Dhoni,  2 runs,  loud cheers again as Dhoni tucks the shortish ball towards fine leg. Rabada runs to his left and slides and the ball deflects off him towards the boudnary but he cuts it in on second attempt
Steyn to Dhoni,  1 wide,  another short one, this goes down leg for a wide
Steyn to Dhoni,  1 run,  angled in a bit and Dhoni pushes it towards midwicket for one
Steyn to Kumar,  no run,  offcutter from off stump to middle and Bhuvi defends it back to Steyn, he's not off the mark yet
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 run,  Duminy sees MS advancing and fires it on his pads, Dhoni improvises well and nurdles the ball to midwicket
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  slower through the air on middle, BK pats the ball to midwicket
Duminy to Kumar,  1 run,  slightly shorter outside off giving BK enough time to go back and pull to long-on
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  again feigns the advance but stays in his crease, Duminy fires it quick and outside off, de Kock whips off the bails but never left the crease
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  worked with the spin to midwicket
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  and Dhoni pushes the nothing delivery to midwicket again
Morkel to Kumar,  no run,  BK is no position to play that, he moves away and pushes the length delivery to mid-off with no feet movement
Morkel to Kumar,  no run,  130 ks, probing stuff. Full and straight from that height is always going to pose problems, to any one. Bhuvneshwar takes his feet out of the line and defends to the leg side
Morkel to Kumar,  no run,  good short one, Morkel varying his deliveries with lots of success. This time, BK gets under it and lets the ball go
Morkel to Kumar,  no run,  is there a bit of reverse swing now? Full and coming back in from outside off, Bhuvneshwar gets a good stride forward and leaves with lots of intent
Morkel to Kumar,  1 run,  nicely tickled off his pads to fine leg
Morkel to Dhoni,  2 runs,  overpitched this time on middle, MS goes back in his crease and just pushes the ball past the non-striker. Mid-on is very wide, almost like in a Test. They get back for the second
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  slowly tossed up outside off which is squeezed to midwicket
Duminy to Kumar,  no run,  shorter this time, worked out to square leg. BK wants a single but Dhoni sends him back
Duminy to Kumar,  1 run,  short on off and swivel-pulled to deep midwicket
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  fired in short outside off, JP knows that a tossed-up delivery could be met with Dhoni's full flourish. He misses this
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  short again, pushed to square leg with the turn
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  fired in once more on leg, patted to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  no run,  fuller and tamely driven back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  1 run,  Bhuvneshwar squirts out the fuller length for a single to long-on
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  no run,  shorter again to middle, no flight to MS. He cuts to point
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  quick legspinner on off, muscled to long-off off the back foot
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  1 run,  nice flight to Bhuvneshwar on off, not much turn on offer. Worked away to deep square leg
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  better over for India. Nudged with soft hands to short midwicket and Dhoni is quick to call Bhuvneshwar through for a single
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 run,  fired in on leg stump, nudged with the spin towards square leg
Duminy to Kumar,  FOUR,  and that is four. Much needed boundary and is met by raucous cheers from the crowd too. Too full on off, BK moves across and sweeps the ball past short fine leg for four, through the gap at backward square
Duminy to Kumar,  1 run,  turned away with the spin to short fine leg
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  fired in outside off one more, Dhoni misses his cut again. De Kock whips off the bails again. And not out again
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 wide,  fired in down leg, called wide
Duminy to Dhoni,  SIX,  this time Dhoni out-thinks Duminy. He feigns his advance, Duminy fires it in on leg and MS is waiting for that as he lofts the ball well over square leg. Massive six too
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  punched off the back foot to the cover who is on the edge of the circle
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  1 run,  slightly short again, and BK stays back and drives the ball to long-on
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  overpitched on off, Dhoni skips down the track and pushes the ball to long-off for one
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  1 run,  more intent from Bhuvneshwar. Smashes the ball to long-off off the front foot
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  trademark work off the pads by Dhoni. Comes down the track and smothers the spin with a nudge to square leg
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  no run,  too full on off and BK squeezes the ball out to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  no run,  a little bit of flight and pushed into the off side
Rabada to Dhoni,  (no ball) 1 run,  back of a length on middle, Dhoni goes back and tickles the ball to square leg
Rabada to Kumar,  1 run,  short delivery outside off, Buvneshwar can only lob the ball in the air straight up. Three fielders converge and let the ball drop. The benefits of a free hit
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  slower offcutter outside off, cut to point.
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  quicker delivery now, fuller length but Dhoni hangs back and chops down on the delivery late to point
Rabada to Dhoni,  1 wide,  short ball down leg and called wide.
Rabada to Dhoni,  1 run,  good length again close to off stump at 138 ks. Dhoni stays back and punches the ball to the gap through cover for a single
Rabada to Kumar,  1 run,  140 kph, full and angling in on leg, Bhuvneshwar inside-edges the ball to fine leg
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  back of a length again, these bowlers are making a concerted effort not to bowl anything in Dhoni's half. He just bunts the ball by his feet and looks for one but Bhuvneshwar says there is no run
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  no run,  short and wide outside off, cut to point
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  no run,  much straighter now. Kumar stays back and works the ball to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Kumar,  OUT,  and he has got him this time. Just a little slower through the air and Kumar looks to drive through long-off anticipating some legspin but this one doesn't spin. There is however, a huge gap between bat and pad and the delivery sneaks through and clips leg stump.
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  googly again to begin to Harbhajan, but this one is wide outside off. Driven back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  slightly quicker on leg stump, Harbhajan gets a bit of bat on it as the ball rolls away to backward square
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  overpitched on off which is met by the full face of Harbhajan's bat
Rabada to Dhoni,  FOUR,  nicely played by Dhoni. Too short but well-directed but with square leg in the circle, it wasn't an excellent choice. Dhoni walks across and pulls over that man at square leg for four
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  back of a length on middle and leg, Dhoni jumps in his crease but plays the ball to midwicket
Rabada to Dhoni,  FOUR,  too wide this time and Dhoni makes him pay. He hangs back, well inisde his crease and crunches the cut past point
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  and another loose delivery. Short and wide, Dhoni cuts again but this time, goes straight to point. Missed opportunity again
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  139.5 ks, good length on middle and leg, not a great over this so far. Dhoni shuffles across and tries to get some bat on that but hits his arm and then through to de Kock
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  fuller than a good length which maybe deceives Dhoni who was staying back in his crease, expecting a shorter length. The ball pings off his body into the off side. Harbhajan thinks there is one but is sent back by the captain
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  good length on middle, that splice-jarring length. Harbhajan lobs the ball back to Morkel but it lands well short of him
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  pushes Harbhajan back in the crease again. Good length on leg, Harbhajan can only clip the ball to square leg
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  wow, massive heave and why not? Fuller from Morkel and Harbhajan swings at it, it goes off the inside half of the bat to deep midwicket just as the bat turned in his hands
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 run,  Dhoni has now realised the length being bowled to him. He shuffles across and helps the short ball down to fine leg
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  may have been the slower one, and Harbhajan is through the shot much too quickly and hits Harbhajan on the arm as he completes the shot before the ball gets to him
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  follows-it up with another short delivery on off stump. Harbhajan just cannot connect. Swings at the ball again and comprehensively misses
Duminy to Dhoni,  SIX,  whew. what power. Just plain muscular prowess. Short again from Duminy and Dhoni was waiting for that. He muscles the ball well over long-on. What a shot
Duminy to Dhoni,  no run,  oooh, he shapes up for another big shot but the ball dips on him late and he improvises well to keep the eventual yorker out
Duminy to Dhoni,  1 run,  short and wide, Dhoni pushes the ball towards point and wants two, but there is only one
Duminy to Harbhajan Singh,  FOUR,  Harbhajan gets into the action now and the crowd is on its feet, having found their voice. Clouted out to deep midwicket and the ball falls just short of the fielder, it hits him and beats him for four
Duminy to Harbhajan Singh,  SIX,  oh he has connected with that, alright. No question about it. Tossed up on off from JP and Harbhajan clears one foot and launches a huge six over midwicket. That was just huge.
Duminy to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  shorter again and no spin, Harbhajan wants to send a message by playing a forward defense but the ball beats him.
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 run,  short and wide, pushed out to the sweeper cover off the back foot
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  extra bounce there. Harbhajan wants to cut over point but Morkel's height and bounce takes the ball past Harbhajan's flashing cut
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  good length again on off, Harbhajan clears one foot and muscles the ball down past mid-off . There is a misfield but they get only one
Morkel to Dhoni,  no run,  not a wide there and rightly so. Dhoni walks well across his stumps trying to tickle the ball to fine leg but the ball misses that leg stump
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 leg bye,  very similar line and length. But this time, the ball meets Dhoni's pads before rolling off to square leg. Morkel is the only one appealing
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  overpitched outside off and Harbhajan plays a good-looking drive through the vacant cover region. Dhoni slips and therefore just the one
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  pushed through outside off which is just pushed to cover, Harbhajan lazily jogs through but doesn't realise AB is lurking. He gets his wheels on but the throw isn't accurate
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  FOUR,  nicely played by Dhoni. Flat and quick on leg, Dhoni just tickles the ball down to fine leg where no one is present.
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 wide,  googly down the leg side, huge wide
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  2 runs,  he wants two immediately and gets it. He plays the topspinner with soft hands towards square leg and hustles back for the second
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  SIX,  smashed. All muscle again. Massive six. He gets to the pitch of the ball, gets under the ball and powers the ball over long-on for a huge six
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,  1 run,  flatter on off, pushed to cover for one
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  slower through the air this time outside off, Harbhajan plays it with soft hands towards point after opening the face of the bat.
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  flat-batted off the back foot to cover. Interesting shot that but not a bad choice. The sweeper cover comes across and fields though
Morkel to Dhoni,  no run,  full and wide at 138 ks, Dhoni uses the pace and cuts the ball to point.
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 run,  slower delivery on leg, Dhoni jumps back in his crease while playing the shot and works the ball to midwicket
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  short on middle, Harbhajan clears his front foot and swipes at the ball but the ball goes along the ground to deep midwicket
Morkel to Dhoni,  1 run,  lovely line that with any field. tight on off and Dhoni gets bat on that to point
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh,  1 run,  lands safely. Huge hit attempted by Harbhajan. Full on off and Harbhajan looks to go straight but the ball skews off the outer half of the bat straight in the air but lands behind point. Just the one however
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh,  no run,  shorter length outside off. Good choice. Harbhajan swings at that but misses again
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh,  FOUR,  makes connection here. Slower delivery outside off, Harbhajan goes back and looks to smash the ball over cover and executes nicely
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh,  OUT,  short and extremely sweet from Harbhajan. Good cameo that, but Dhoni will have to farm the strike now. Full outside off, harbhajan swipes at that and gets a thick outside edge which flies to de Kock who clings onto a sharp chance to his right.
Steyn to Yadav,  no run,  back of a length on middle and with that length the top of the bat is in trouble. Hits that area of the bat before going back towards Steyn
Steyn to Yadav,  FOUR,  Yadav takes Steyn on and crashes the short length through midwicket. Made a good sound as it left the bat
Steyn to Yadav,  OUT,  139 ks, and what a catch from de Kock. Only reflex. Yadav chooses a decent shot but doesn't execute well enough in a game of fine margins. Back of a length and Yadav looks to steer the ball to third man with the pace. But the ball goes too fine, de Kock dives to his right and takes a stunning catch. Excellently held.
Rabada to Dhoni,  1 wide,  fired in quick and full on the left-handers tramline. Massive wide
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  124 ks, fullish delivery and driven to deep cover and Dhoni does refuse the single.
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  141.1 ks, full outside off, smashed to mid-off. Only twos or boundaries now
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  147.7 ks, good length now zoning in on off, defended to point
Rabada to Dhoni,  FOUR,  given six. Great shot from Dhoni. Fullish outside off, and Dhoni chooses his shot really well and the execution is terrific. Launches that well over mid-off. Aleem Dar signals six but that one bounced a foot inside the boundary. And the correction is eventually made.
Rabada to Dhoni,  1 wide,  drifting down leg and another wide
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  fuller length on middle, blocked back down the track
Rabada to Dhoni,  1 run,  and Dhoni knows exactly what he is doing as he steals a single off the final ball of the over. Overpitched on middle, a little bit fuller and that would have been a yorker but Dhoni digs the ball out to mid-on and scampers one
Steyn to Dhoni,  no run,  shorter length on off, Dhoni heaves the ball to long-on and he refuses the single again
Steyn to Dhoni,  FOUR,  smears the ball over cover for four. Excellent shot selection but this length is a bit too predictable with the field. Shorter length outside off and just clears mid-off, goes to the boundary
Steyn to Dhoni,  no run,  good length now and Dhoni plays the ball to mid-on. No run again
Steyn to Dhoni,  FOUR,  one-bounce boundary. Attempted bouncer aimed at Dhoni's badge but that one doesn't get up high enough. Dhoni pulls the ball uppishly over square leg for four. Easy four
Steyn to Dhoni,  1 run,  takes the one this time. Fuller than a good length and Dhoni gets bat on it as he pushes the ball to cover for one
Steyn to MM Sharma,  no run,  ah, what a block. Gets behind the line nicely and solidly defends back to Steyn
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  he goes for that, gives himself room but Rabada follows him and Dhoni can only find midwicket with an ill-timed slog
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  falls just short of Morkel at midwicket. Shorter delivery on leg.
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  excellent variation. Terrific variation. Dhoni was waiting for the shorter one but Rabada fires a quick yorker outside off. He gets hit on the pads outside off
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  smashed down to long-on, no run again
Rabada to Dhoni,  no run,  terrific short ball. Dhoni decides against hitting that. Not called wide
Rabada to Dhoni,  SIX,  finally, connects well enough with one. Short again on middle and leg but Dhoni is outside leg, waiting for that. He swings at that and smashes that flat and far. Beats midwicket and destroys a board behind the boundary rope. If any shot had a message to send, that was it.
MM Sharma to Miller, 1 run, back of a length and jags in, Miller is cramped for room a bit but secures a single through square leg to get off the mark
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, full outside off and a neat push square of the wicket wide of point
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, full on middle and off, defended back down the pitch
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, pushed across outside off, 81mph, left alone
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, on leg stump but he gets away with it as Azam flicks it off his pads and Rashid makes a diving stop at short fine-leg
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, back outside off, full length, defended towards mid-off
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, good line, full on off stump, 78mph, carefully defended with bat and pad together...a steady opening over
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 wide, starts down the leg side, a hint of swing, Azhar misses his flick
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, nicely bowled, adjusts his line to full outside off, draws Azhar forward and he plays a flat-foot drive and almost gets an edge
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, down the leg side again, but this time Azhar had moved quite away across his crease the umpire lets it go
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, tucked off the pads to square leg
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, fuller on middle and leg, nudged just to the right of mid-on
Topley to Babar Azam, 2 runs, full outside leg, not quite the right line, deflects off the pad fine of the keeper but the slow outfield ensures it pulls up well before the boundary...in fact, a small edge too
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, outside off, driven firmly to mid-off's left
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, back of a length outside off, left alone
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, driven square off a thickish outside edge towards point
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, gets across outside off and whips a full delivery into midwicket
Willey to Azhar Ali, FOUR, nice drive this time, gets well forward into a full ball and pierces the gap between cover and mid-off...enough power to overcome the outfield, too
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, drags the length back a touch, pushed to mid-off
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, back of a length outside off, punched from the back foot to the left of mid-off so he keeps the strike
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, nearly draws an edge, angled across outside off, Azhar plays at it and the ball goes on to beat him
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, left alone this time
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, oh dear, Topley's had a bit of a shocker there! The ball was punched back to him, nothing was happening, but he went to throw it back to the keeper and the ball got stuck in his hand and he ended up winging it into space on the leg side to give away a run. A little embarrassing
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, clipped wide of mid-on
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, full outside off, left alone
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, good delivery, full at off stump, finds the outside edge but it dies in front of second slip who makes a sharp save
Willey to Babar Azam, 2 runs, width outside off and cut through the off side, slow outfield into play
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, worked off the pads through square leg
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, driven back to the bowler without much timing
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, almost a drag on as he goes for an expansive drive, the ball doesn't come on and a thick inside edge dribbles just wide of the stumps
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, defended off the stumps
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, back of a length, aims to flick it through the on side but just gets taken on the thigh pad
Topley to Babar Azam, FOUR, that's a strong drive, a stride forward and although he wasn't to the pitch he just strikes clean thorugh the line
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, not so full this time, dropped into the off side and his Azhar's has gone flying somehow...a collision between him and Topley as the bowler ran across to get to the ball
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, tucked into the leg side
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, flicked down to long leg
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, better delivery, full and straight, squirts off a thick outside edge into the point area
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, very full, on the popping crease, driven off the bottom of the bat towards mid-off...Azhar struggling a little
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full outside off, left alone
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, works a straight delivery behind square on the leg side with a flick of his wrists
Woakes to Azhar Ali, SIX, blimey! That's come out of nowhere. He takes a step down the pitch and then crunches a full delivery straight down the ground over long off
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, stays in his crease this time, works a full ball from outside off towards mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, short of a length outside off, defended into the covers
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, more strong wrist work, taking a delivery from quite wide outside off and placing to just wide of mid-on
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, angled down to third man
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, slower ball, full and wide outside off, can't get it through the off side
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, width again, this time he is able to cut it wide of third man although it's just a single
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, shorter delivery, Azhar plays it off the back foot, rides it down to third man again
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, full at off stump, defended square to point
Topley to Babar Azam, FOUR, that's a sweet straight drive, along the ground this time, very correct from Azam as he leans into a full delivery and sends it straight of mid-off
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short of a length, gets inside the line and tucks it down to long leg
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full at straight, flicked to square leg
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 wide, a bouncer, loops off the surface, Azam ducks and the umpire calls wide much to the chagrin of Woakes
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, sweetly time with a bottom-handed flick as he whips it off the stumps to mid-on
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, a punchy drive off the back foot which finds cover
Woakes to Babar Azam, 2 runs, finds the gap this time, another neat drive as he drives on the up through the covers
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, can't take advantage of some width as he cracks this one straight at cover
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, full at middle, 80mph, defended back to Topley
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, opens the face and runs this down to third man
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, slips out as a full toss but it doesn't cost him as it is flicked straight to short fine-leg
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, slower ball, full outside off, presses forward and opens the face to third man
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, leans back on the drive, finds point
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, down the pitch and gets beaten as Topley pulls his length back, the ball climbs over the top edge
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full outside off, pushed to the covers, and a scream of 'no'
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, shorter outside off, played from the back foot this time
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, shuffles across his stumps and flicks a length delivery from outside off to deep square
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, a bouncer outside off, Azhar sways out of the line, this time it's okay for the umpire
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, fuller again, slides off a thick outside edge to third man
Woakes to Babar Azam, OUT, breakthrough! And it's the short ball which works. Entices a hook from this time, he had to drag it from outside off, took mostly top edge and Rashid steadied himself under the catch at long leg
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, starts on leg stump, flicked into the deep on the on side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, on off stump, a little short, he has plenty of time to place it off the back foot through the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, touch fuller, hint of turn, played with an open face to point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, beats him as he tries to cut away a delivery that skidded on and only just missed off stump
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, chips this over mid-on, he came down the track but wasn't to the pitch. Still went through with his shot, dragged it a little, but had legs to get over the infield
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed to the covers
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, full outside off, pushed square to backwards point
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, driven firmly to cover...Root gets a blow on his knee
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, angled into the pads, flicked to long leg
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, skips across the crease, almost has his feet off the ground as he flicks this to the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, goes for the pull, takes the pad and loops towards Root at slip
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward, defends down by his feet, looked for a single but the ball was quickly closed down
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short outside off, he steps back and cuts through the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, this spins a decent amount, but quite slowly and Hafeez flicks to mid-on
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up much more, is actually a low full toss, driven to long-off
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, played down the ground again
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed carefully into the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, full at leg stump, swept strongly behind square
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, full outside off, driven with a closed face into the leg side wide of mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short of a length at off stump, Woakes has mixed things up quite effectively so far, worked into the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, this full delivery is drilled over the off side, confident shot from Hafeez who didn't bother with much footwork
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, straighter delivery, aims to work to the on side and Woakes gets across
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward and defends, slides off the face to point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed square into the off side again, point is quickly onto it to prevent the single
Rashid to Azhar Ali, no run, uses his feet, nicely bowled with a touch more air, pushes to the off side
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short this time, spins away outside off, cut to deep cover
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, just over mid-on! Hafeez wanting to attack Rashid again, goes for the lofted option, the bat twisted in his hands a touch, didn't quite get the elevation he wanted but just enough to beat the man on the edge of the circle
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, SIX, this one has the distance! Down the pitch again, swings it very high into the air and it has the distance to land over the rope at long-on although not by much
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, dragged down outside off, flat-batted to deep cover
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, full toss which dips down the leg side, tickled fine of short fine-leg
Ali to Azhar Ali, no run, over the wicket, tossed up on the stumps, tucked to square leg
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, goes back in the crease and flicks the ball a little finer for one
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up on middle and off, comes forward and pushes back to the bowler, briefly in the air
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, flighted, outside off, driven through the covers
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, gets across his stumps and taps one more through mid-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, Hafeez scuttles out and clips to leg, sends it straight to midwicket
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, pushed through outside off, drops back and chops through point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, SIX, into the stands this time! Hafeez slaps Rashid upside his head again, walloping a full delivery over wide long-on... Picked the googly, I think
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, drags it down a little, pushed back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up outside off, driven through the covers
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, pushed through on middle and leg, Azhar clips through midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, floated up on the stumps, Hafeez gets down low to sweep but picks out the fielder
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, on the stumps, dabbed into a gap at midwicket and they hustle one
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, length ball, spinning in, clips the inside edge and runs square
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, flighted around off stump, blocked back to the bowler's left
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, down the leg side, just a little tickle of bat on it and the ball runs fine
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, presses forward and pushes a driven through mid-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, there's a clatter of timber, Buttler makes a half-hearted appeal... The ball went into and out of his gloves on to the stumps but was Hafeez's back foot in? Yes, it was indeedy
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, tossed up and punched through the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, flighted outside off, tapped towards mid-off along the ground
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, OUT, calamity! Hafeez has run out his captain...! Steered the ball straight to backward point and then called Azhar through, but he was never in the picture, he turns and stops as if to remonstrate, swipes the air with his bat. To be fair, he didn't respond to the initial call and was then up the creek
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, gets forward and drives wide of the bowler for one
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, spinning away outside off, dabbed through backward point
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, on the stumps, whipped to leg and Safraz races through for one more
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, pushed into another gap for a busy single
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, beats the bat outside off, Hafeez attempting to cut off the back foot
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, Sarfraz is up and motoring, smoothly powering a sweep through backward square leg - 100 up for Pakistan
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, on the stumps, turned into the leg side but midwicket seizes on it
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushes the ball back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, spinning away outside off, dabbed square
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, turned into a gap
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, pushed through outside off, Sarfraz drops back and plays a very late cut for a couple
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, tossed up on middle and leg, nudged into the off side
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, gives it some air outside off, driven into the covers - tighter over from Rashid
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, shout of "catch!" from Moeen as Hafeez chips into a gap on the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, superbly done from Sarfraz, gets lower than Flo Rida Ft. T-Pain and sweeps hard from outside off off stump through backward square leg
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, on the stumps, worked to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, driven, uppish and is that a drop? Well, hard to call it a chance but Woakes, I think, got fingertips to it diving forward at extra cover
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, punched back down the track
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up and swept hard, bounces out towards deep midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, length ball outside off, dabbed towards backward point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up and punched into the covers coming forwards
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up and punched into the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, nicely bowled, flighted on off stump and turning to beat Hafeez's forward prod
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, gets into line and dabs it away - another dot for Rashid
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, and that's a rare maiden for him, tossing up the googly to complete the over
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, nudged off the legs
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, goes down to try and sweep, misses the ball and takes it on the thigh - maybe a little slower from Moeen
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the stumps, turned to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward and drives to the man in the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, flighted, worked across the line, in front of midwicket and they pinch one
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, angled in with the arm, blocked back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the stumps, tucked towards midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up, goes for the slog-sweep and miscues it along the ground towards long-on
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, tossed up, nice and juicy outside off, Sarfraz takes a big bit, getting his front foot out and clubbing past deep extra cover
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, tip and run, towards mid-on, the ball is underarmed at the stumps but missed and Sarfraz had made good ground
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed through slightly wide, Taylor makes a diving stop at backward point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, width to cut again but Taylor pounces on it in almost identical fashion
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, tossed up on the stumps and pushed towards mid-on
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, closes the face, gets a leading edge back towards the bowler
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, outside off, cut to backward point
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, gets down low and sweeps one more through backward square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, can't get this one away
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up on middle and off, pushed back to the bowler - tight few overs from England, nine runs off the last four
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 wide, starts with a wide down the leg side
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, goes across and nudges a length ball to leg
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the hips, tucked away through backward square
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, Willey continues to bowl a leg-stump line, clipped away for one more
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the legs, nudged square to the man in the deep
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, pushed across the batsman, room to free the arms and slap one behind point
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, a change of pace deceives Hafeez, he tries to pull and it bops him in the gut
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, gets down and sweeps one more through backward square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed back to the bowler
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up on the stumps, can't get the ball past midwicket
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up outside off, driven firmly but straight to the man set back in the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, popped back towards the bowler again
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, angled in and turned around the corner for a single to finish the over
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, length ball around the line of off, pushed in front of square
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 leg bye, low full toss from Willey, the cat-like Sarfraz is low in the crease and into the sweep early, picks out backward square but runs anyway, a direct hit would have been close... Think there was a vain lbw appeal, too, but must have been glove/bat on it first
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, length ball, dabbed into the covers
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, OUT, top-edged out towards deep square leg... and taken! Hafeez's slow wind down comes to its conclusion with a tame flick into the deep, miscued it high to the fielder
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, back of a length, tucked away through square
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, goes across his stumps and flicks his first ball away for a run
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, punched back past the bowler to long-on
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, worked into the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, OUT, comes charging down the pitch, slogs to leg - and picks out the fielder in the deep! Sarfraz has a brain fart and hands his wicket to Moeen! He was going so well but tried to force it, just after losing his partner
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through flat on off stump, drops back and cut
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, flighted, spinning in to hit the inside edge as Malik props forward
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, length ball, tapped square from the crease
Willey to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, pitched up outside off and pushed through the covers into the deep
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, back of a length on leg stump, misses with a flick
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed into the covers coming forwards
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, Willey joining the dots here, as Malik punches a fullish ball to extra cover
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, short ball on the stumps, pulled flat through square leg
Willey to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, full around off stump, slower delivery and Rizwan pats it to cover
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, pushed to the right of the bowler for one
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, OUT, another run-out, Rizwan wandering down the pitch! Either he didn't call or Malik didn't hear it because he wasn't moving, Rizwan realised far too late and Roy was able to scoop the ball up at midwicket, underarm to Buttler, who completed the dismissal
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, spinning down the leg side, gets a leading edge
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, turned into the leg side
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, angled in with the arm, pushed back
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, Moeen darts the ball on the stumps, Iftikhar blocks - just one off the over, to go with the run-out
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, stays in the crease and blocks
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, short of a length, drops back and nudged through square
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, dabbed into a gap, Iftikhar is off the mark
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, slanted across the right-hander from over the wicket, glided to third man
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, goes full around the line of off, driven with a statesmanlike air through mid-off
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, slower ball from Willey, hits the toe of the bat as he props forward
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, on the stumps, flicked into the leg side
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through on off stump, blocked back to the bowler
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, length ball on off, closes the face and turns it to midwicket
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, slower, floated up outside off, leans out and defends
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, spinning in off a length, goes back and whips it away to deep midwicket for one
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, bit of dip, gripping to spin in on off, Iftikhar shows it a straight bat
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, full and straight, driven to mid-n
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, there's an appeal for lbw by Woakes as this nips back, an off-cutter, and is deflected to third man. Pad first? Hard to tell. Seems to be flap of the front pad. No review used. Going over in any event
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, clipped to midwicket
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed, OUT, and another! Falling in a heap here. Another short-ball wicket for Woakes as Iftikhar goes to pull, gets elevation but not the distance and picks out deep square-leg.
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, tight to off stump, dabbed through backward point
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, steps back to leg and drives out to deep cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, appeal for lbw, full around leg stump, Anwar probs forward, probably not straightening enough...might have pitched outside leg, too
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, wide outside off, left alone
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 2 runs, pushed square into the off side and a rare fumble in the field from England by Woakes coming across from point
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, another appeal for lbw and this time England use their review. A googly from Rashid, nice spin to beat the inside edge. Has it done too much? Unless there's an edge. Well, hitting in line with off stump is umpire's call and it's also going over
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, full and pushed down the ground
Woakes to Anwar Ali, no run, full at the stumps, played back to Woakes in his followthrough
Woakes to Anwar Ali, no run, short ball, over off stump, Anwar ducks
Woakes to Anwar Ali, no run, full outside off, might have been another cutter, patted to the off side
Woakes to Anwar Ali, 1 run, flicked into the leg side
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, short delivery dug in, rises fairly gently off the surface, worked around the corner behind square
Woakes to Anwar Ali, 1 run, push-and-run towards mid-on, it was a bit of a scamper but safe enough
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, driven into the covers
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, driven away square through point, but Moeen is quickly around at deep cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, flicks a full delivery to midwicket
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, was that a missed stumping?? Yes, it was. Buttler can't glove it cleanly as Anwar plays over the top of a full delivery. Won't help Buttler's confidence. Anwar was out of his crease for quite some time.
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, beaten by one which spins, nice bowling
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, driven down the ground
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, full outside off, played to backward point
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, shorter delivery, again he can't beat backward point as he opens the face
Topley to Anwar Ali, OUT, this has gone miles in the air and is safely taken! Another bit of pretty brainless cricket from Pakistan as Anwar tries to launch this back towards Dubai, it's a back-of-a-length ball and it gets way underneath it. Moeen does well to settle under a steepler
Topley to Shoaib Malik, no run, full at the stumps, tries to work to the on side but gets it towards mid-off instead
Topley to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, that's a pretty ugly heave into the leg side, swinging across the line of a full delivery
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, full and straight, blocked to the off side
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, angled down to third man
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, a length delivery, runs it off the edge to third man
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, and another down to third man...it's about all Pakistan can do for the next five or six overs
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, short outside off, leaves it alone
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, fuller, comes forward and pushes to backward point, Roy very quickly in
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, a short-of-a-length cutter which is prodded into the off side
Topley to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, angled down to third man
Topley to Wahab Riaz, OUT, another run out! Waqar not impressed in the dressing room. It was just nudged into midwicket, Malik came charging up the pitch, it's a swift pick-up by Jordan and a direct hit on the turn. Excellent work, but what has happened to Pakistan?
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, flicked off the pads to long leg
Topley to Zafar Gohar, no run, nearly run-out No. 4! He digs out a yorker towards mid-on, Wahab charges out of his crease and has to dive to get back in
Topley to Zafar Gohar, no run, slower ball outside off which he nearly spoons to cover
Topley to Zafar Gohar, no run, tapped to the off side
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, low full toss which is squirted down to third man
Willey to Zafar Gohar, no run, worked from offstump to midwicket
Willey to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, full outside off, heaved down the ground to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, driven through the off side
Willey to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, low full toss, aiming for the yorker, can only get swung to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, full on the pads, clipped to deep midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, excellent yorker, dug out back to the bowler
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, gets beaten by another slower one outside off as he tries to cut
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, driven square through the off side
Topley to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, dropped into the off side, a tight single...could have been close with a direct hit. Probably out with a hit!
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 2 runs, a controlled edge down to third man, he comes back for a dicey second and has to dive to make his crease...the ball bounce awkwardly at Buttler who couldn't gather it. Might have had time to break the stumps
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, driven to deep cover
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, cut firmly out to deep point
Willey to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, swings a low full toss in the air over square leg, deep midwicket gets around, they wanted a second for a moment but settled at one
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, full outside off, he drives over the top of it
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, deflected down to third man
Willey to Zafar Gohar, SIX, a boundary! And it's the full lot. Terrific shot on debut, gets good leverage on a full ball, stays in the crease, swings through the line over long-on
Willey to Zafar Gohar, no run, misses out on a low full toss this time, clipped to midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, dabbed to backward point
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, another cutter, beats him on the inside edge as he aims to the leg side...actually, a back-of-the-hand slower ball
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, on the pads, flicked to deep midwicket
Topley to Zafar Gohar, 2 runs, good bit of invention now from Gohar, steps across his crease and scoops a full toss behind square...he doesn't lack for confidence
Topley to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, slices this in the air, down the ground, but it lands short of long off
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, another slower one outside off, he misses his dab
Woakes to Zafar Gohar, 2 runs, lovely strike and, I think, superb fielding...lofted straight down the ground over mid-off, but it doesn't skip across the outfield and gets flicked back
Woakes to Zafar Gohar, no run, swing and a miss to a full ball outside off
Woakes to Zafar Gohar, OUT, gone this time, swinging to leg against a back-of-a-length delivery and gets a top edge through to Buttler. Been a short-ball day for Woakes
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, no run, full outside off, driven to cover
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, no run, yorker, dug out to the off side
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, no run, full and straight, manages to keep it out with a nudge to mid-on
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, full and straight, aims to swing down the ground, slices as the bat turns and lobs towards mid-off but he declines the single
Topley to Wahab Riaz, SIX, he's connected this time! Almost a slog-sweep, goes down on one knee and picks it from outside off with a mighty swing over deep midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, dropped! A blemish from England. He heaves this into the leg side, picks out deep square where Root shells one that he would normally swallow
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, that came out wrong, a loopy full toss slower ball which Irfan lets through to the keeper then questions if it should have been a no-ball. Waist height to Irfan is a beaming to other players
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, full outside off, jabbed to point...crowd cheering the blocks from Irfan
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, a straight, low full toss which is carefully pushed to cover so he survives the over
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, a yorker which is driven firmly to cover who is on the edge of the circle
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, top edge, but falls into space! And in the end it's a dot ball. Back of a length, heaves to the leg side, takes a top edge and doesn't carry to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, cracked straight down the ground this time and the run is declined again
Willey to Wahab Riaz, SIX, this time he gets it! Short of a length, Wahab keeps swinging hard and he muscles it over deep midwicket to bring up Pakistan's 200
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, full on the pads, deflects into the leg side, straight back to the bowler so can't get the single
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, works a low full toss into the vacant midwicket area and trots the single
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, SIX, another fantastic strike! Not the best delivery from Woakes, a driveable length outside off, and it gets absolutely hammered, flat over long-off
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, he's given lbw but reviews straight away. Hit it? Yes, massive inside edge into the back pad so this will be overturned
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, he's given lbw again! And he reviews again. Wasn't an instant review this time. This one might be missing leg. Hit the back foot full, but very leg-side. Missing leg stump. He survives again. What scenes
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, now he tries to scoop, gets across outside off and flicks it behind square on the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, OUT, cleaned up! Full, straight, Irfan swung and Woakes hit off stump...he finishes with four wickets, so eight in his last two innings
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, full at off stump, driven firmly to mid-on
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, gets forward into a full delivery at middle and off, pushed just the left of mid-off and he can't get a single
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, touch shorter in length, 84mph, Roy moves onto off stump and defends to cover
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, walks into a solid defensive push and finds mid-off
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, FOUR, finds space this time, just a hint of width outside off and Roy waits for it to come slowly off the surface then square drives between point and cover
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 1 run, good response from Irfan, short of a length, grips on the surface and is defended a little awkwardly into the off side and he steals a single towards mid-off
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, full at off stump, defended on the front foot
Anwar Ali to Roy, FOUR, lovely piece of timing, a short-arm punch with a straight bat in front of square as he flicks away a length delivery from around off stump
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, full outside off, 79mph/127kph, chopped into the off side
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, flicks this from outside off into the leg side but midwicket cuts it off
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, movement back into Roy - bowlers often try to exploit the gap between bat and pad - and this is well bowled by Anwar as he keeps it full
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, a touch slower, 72mph, and Roy is nearly early on his drive as he comes forward but manages to stop himself spooning it towards mid-off
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, short of a length, Hales defends his first delivery to the off side
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, gets a thick edge wide of second slip, wasn't a chance, as Hales drove with hard hands at a full delivery angled across him and it runs to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, on middle and off, 85mph/137kph, defended to the covers
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, pushed across shorter and wider outside off, Roy chases it and doesn't make contact
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, beaten again! This is a good delivery, angled across full outside off, Roy is feeling for it away from his body
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, drives square to backward point
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, full at off stump, offering to come back into Hales, someone else whose technique to the ball angling into him has been tested, defended back to the bowler
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, onto the front foot and pushed back down the pitch
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, this one keeps a fraction low, a straight delivery, flicked into the leg side
Anwar Ali to Hales, 2 runs, a little fuller this time, keeps it on the stumps, driven towards mid-on where Wahab can't stop it cleanly and gives away an extra run
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, full outside off, 69mph/112kph, and driven back to the bowler without much timing
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, a good-looking on-drive from Hales but he can't beat mid-on who gets across
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, FOUR, cracked away! Dropped in short by Irfan, plenty of time to pick the length off a slow pitch and Hales pulls it firmly in front of square
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, adjusts his line and length, fuller outside off, driven to backward point
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, excellent delivery, nearly gets a yorker underneath Hales' bat but he's able to dig it out to midwicket
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, slash and a miss at a delivery pushed wider outside off, dies off the surface through to Sarfraz
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, works a straight delivery back to the bowler
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, drives at a full delivery, goes in the air backward of point down to third man
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, back of a length at off stump, punched to cover
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, opens his stance a touch to try and open the off side but can only pick out cover again
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, comes down the pitch, he's itching to get after Anwar, then swings a length delivery over the leg side and falls well in front of the man running around from deep square
Anwar Ali to Roy, FOUR, that's a lovely from Roy, a wonderful clean strike as he uses his feet to shuffle down at Anwar then dispatches a full delivery clean over mid-on...elegant
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, loses his shape this time, coming down the pitch again and aims a hoick through the leg side but gets beaten...ball goes between leg stump and the batsman
Anwar Ali to Roy, no run, short of a length outside off, sweetly timed off the back foot but finds cover
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, short on leg stump, Hales gets inside the line and flicks to long leg
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 2 runs, full at leg stump this time, flicked off his pads
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 1 run, flips a length delivery into midwicket
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, opens the face and runs a delivery outside off down to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, gets beaten under the bottom edge as he tries to square cut a delivery
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, a beauty! A terrific delivery, full on off stump, a cutter from Irfan which may have gripped a touch and beats Roy's outside edge
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, worked into the leg side
Yasir Shah to Roy, no run, pushed to the covers
Yasir Shah to Roy, FOUR, well, well...he's brought out the reverse sweep (or club, in fact a switch hit) as he takes this from outside leg stump and lofts it over point
Yasir Shah to Roy, no run, comes down the pitch then pads into the off side
Yasir Shah to Roy, no run, onto the back foot and pushed to the covers
Yasir Shah to Roy, 1 wide, slips down the leg side and called a wide
Yasir Shah to Roy, no run, pushed back to the bowler
Wahab Riaz to Hales, FOUR, close! Drives firmly and edges a full delivery just wide of the lone slip down to third man
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, full at middle, defended back down the pitch
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, driven into the off side and beats a diving cover
Wahab Riaz to Roy, 1 run, comes forward and defends to backward point, another fumble in the field allows a single...Pakistan not as sharp so far today. Actually, the fielder beaten by the spin there
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, tight on middle and off, defended to the leg side...that one registered at 91mph
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, shorter in length, no width for Hales to work with, played into the covers
Yasir Shah to Roy, 1 run, uses his feet, chips the delivery over the in-field and it lands short of deep midwicket
Yasir Shah to Hales, 2 runs, this is a more controlled version of the stroke, staying in his crease and flicks it along the ground wide of mid-on
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, full and whipped to mid-on
Yasir Shah to Hales, FOUR, goes for the sweep, gets it towards short fine leg where Irfan basically falls over attempting to reach the ball
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, driven to the off side
Yasir Shah to Hales, FOUR, that's a delightful way to bring up the fifty as Hales eases into the front foot drives through the covers...no brute force, just timing and placement
Wahab Riaz to Roy, 2 runs, worked through midwicket with a straight bat
Wahab Riaz to Roy, no run, short ball, over off stump, 89mph and Roy sways out of the line
Wahab Riaz to Roy, 2 runs, superb placement from Roy as he drives off the back foot being point, it looks like it might beat third man but there's a good diving save
Wahab Riaz to Roy, 1 run, full outside off, slower ball at 73mph/117kph, driven to deep cover
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 wide, appeal for a catch down the leg side...then the umpire signals wide. Thought I heard a sound of pad. Yes, it did. Harsh call.
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, back of a length on off stump, driven into the covers
Wahab Riaz to Roy, 2 runs, a rasping pull from Roy as Wahab drops short, sends it in front of square but deep square is able to get around
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, on off stump, he's forward and defends
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, works a straight delivery into the leg side
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 wide, angled down the leg side, another wide
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, short outside off, cut to deep cover
Yasir Shah to Roy, 1 run, comes forward and bunts the delivery to long-off
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, touch shorter, rocks onto the back foot and drives to cover
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, strangled appeal for lbw as Hales flicks this towards short fine leg...sensible strike-rotation by the pair
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, round the wicket, full outside off, driven to the left of mid-off where Irfan uses his boot stop the ball...well, it is a long way down for him
Shoaib Malik to Roy, no run, down the pitch then clips to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Roy, no run, well bowled, some spin there for Malik and it takes an inside edge from Roy which Sarfraz can't gather
Shoaib Malik to Roy, FOUR, strong response as he brings out a powerful sweep from outside off and sends it whistling in front of square
Shoaib Malik to Roy, 1 run, tucked off the pads through square leg
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, worked into the leg side as he closes the face
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, full at the stumps, driven down the ground
Yasir Shah to Roy, no run, can't beat the bowler this time
Yasir Shah to Roy, no run, this time Yasir dives to his left to make a good save
Yasir Shah to Roy, 1 run, finds space down the ground this time
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, another edge? Hales driving off the back foot, maybe a thin bottom edge. Not sure. Either way, very tough for Sarfraz
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, driven to the covers
Shoaib Malik to Roy, no run, neat footwork then he clips to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Roy, 2 runs, another reverse sweep, gets it down towards third man, good save on the boundary
Shoaib Malik to Roy, FOUR, uses his feet again and then drives superbly inside out over mid-off who is inside the circle. Excellent control
Shoaib Malik to Roy, 1 run, flicked off the stumps behind square
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, whipped through straight midwicket to the man in the deep
Shoaib Malik to Roy, 1 run, pushed with a straight bat down to long-on
Wahab Riaz to Roy, no run, short of a length outside off, Roy aims something expansive over the leg side and doesn't make contact
Wahab Riaz to Roy, FOUR, top shot, more fantastic timing from Roy as he stands tall, holds his shape and drives a short-of-a-length delivery off the back foot wide of mid-off. Very classy
Wahab Riaz to Roy, no run, a little fuller, another punchy drives, picks out mid-off this time
Wahab Riaz to Roy, no run, round the wicket, outside off, chopped into the ground
Wahab Riaz to Roy, FOUR, cracked again! Pulled off the front foot from outside off well in front of square and a superb way to reach a half-century. Very good innings
Wahab Riaz to Roy, no run, fresh air this time, goes for another pull, ball dies off the surface and goes under the bottom edge
Shoaib Malik to Hales, FOUR, round the wicket, a strong sweep as he picks this up from off stump and places it behind square
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, flicked in the air but doesn't carry to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Hales, FOUR, width outside off and cut firmly through the covers, wide of the deep sweeper...more excellent placement
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, takes the pad and trickles to short fine leg
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, nudged into the square-leg area
Shoaib Malik to Roy, 1 run, pushed down the ground to long-on to raise the hundred stand...super platform for England
Wahab Riaz to Roy, 1 run, short-arm pull through midwicket. Sweetly timed
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, open-faced glide to third man, another single to the total
Wahab Riaz to Roy, OUT, in the air, and straight to mid-on! Well struck, but always aerial and didn't get under the ball enough to clear the man. The end of a fine opening stand
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, onto the front foot, punched to cover
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, pushed back into the crease this time, but angled across the right-hander and punched off the back foot to cover
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, nurdles the single to get off the mark and keep the strike
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, good use of the feet, floating like a butterfly to push firmly into the covers
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, on the pads, flicked into space at midwicket
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, on the back foot, drilled into the covers, and they pick off another single
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, four balls, four singles. if this is a sign of England's new commitment to one-day cricket, it's a good sign
Yasir Shah to Root, 3 runs, clipped to long-on and Root calls three immediately, top running
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, crunched uppishly past the bowler, down to long-off. At least a single off every ball and eight off the over
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, width, and that scuttles past a swishing drive. Hardly got up at all
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, that one did! A flimsy pull as Wahab hustles one through from round the wicket, and after a vehement appeal and an agonising delay, the umpire gives it out. But it has gone to a review and Hales lives on! It flicked his trouser-leg
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, on the back foot, eased into the covers with a full flow of the bat
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, on the back foot again, point picks up
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, good pace, good defence
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, squeezed out to point, on the back foot again. Tight stuff
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, clipped firmly to short midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, back of a length, Hales plays it from the pitch but can't impart any power
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, worked off the pads, and that is Hales' fifty, his third in ODIs, and it's been a fine, solid innings with the promise of plenty to come. He hits a long ball when his dander is up ...
Shoaib Malik to Root, no run, forward and driven back to the bowler
Shoaib Malik to Root, 1 run, bottom-handed bunt to wide long-on
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, fended back to the bowler
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, Root keeps finding the gaps
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, stands tall in defence and pushes back to the bowler
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, angled back into the batsman, pushed out to cover
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, solid bat on ball, out into the off side
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, slightly back of a length, Root hangs back in his crease and eases a push to mid-on
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, wider of off stump, and clubbed out to the deep
Shoaib Malik to Root, 1 run, bottom-handed push into the leg-side, Root keeps ticking along
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, tucked to midwicket once again, well timed and placed for an easy single
Shoaib Malik to Root, 1 run, shovelled off the hip, out to the leg-side sweeper
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, defended off the back foot
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, on the pads, an easy nurdle to square leg
Shoaib Malik to Root, 1 run, driven up to long-on
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, tucked off the toes again, easy pickings
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, flicked out to the leg-side, very calm accumulation
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, chiselled into the leg-side from an off-stump line. Good gap-finding, but boundaries currently scarce
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, worked into the leg-side again. No rush
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, pushed into the covers
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, clipped to midwicket, well pounced but a good sharp single.
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, clipped again to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Root, 1 run, flicked off the hip, a squeak of interest as short midwicket dived in vain
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, more intent, a bottom-handed thump out towards cow corner
Shoaib Malik to Root, 1 run, more singles action than on Tinder at the moment. This one is swiped left, through midwicket again
Shoaib Malik to Hales, FOUR, battered on the up and into the gap at cow corner, the first four for fifty balls. Power and placement
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, good stride, thumped into the leg-side. Intentful over
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, on the back foot, driven to mid-off
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, clipped to midwicket
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, flicked fine, sharp work in the deep cuts off the second run. Pakistan have been impressive in the field for one and a half matches so far ...
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, clipped to midwicket, once again
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, another flick off the pads
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, half an appeal as bat and pad end up rather too adjacent. But a single is the result
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, width, cut out to cover
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, nibbling from a leg-stump line and defended in front of middle
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, a big waft, no connection. No slip either, so he might have got away with a thick edge
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, attempting to run a single through third man, exploiting the lack of slip. But Irfan finds some purchase in the surface and jags the ball away
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, another one passes the edge. Living a touch dangerously in this over
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, excellent over, another one beats the bat, this time by hopping over the top of an attempted glide/cut. A momentum-stalling return
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, worked down to third man
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, on the pads, flicked out to square leg
Anwar Ali to Hales, 2 runs, outside off, helped down to third man with an open-faced steer. Measured accumulation
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, on the pads, Irfan has a long way to bend to cut off a single so they scamper through
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, more expert gap-picking from the boundaryless but briskly accumulating Root
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, eased to mid-on
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, on the pads yet again, flicked to midwicket
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, driven on the up, into the covers
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, angled defence into the gully, Hales dropped his bat which robbed them of a second run
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, open-faced steer out to point
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, nurdled into the leg-side again
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, clipped out to square leg
Yasir Shah to Hales, SIX, thump! No sighters for Hales, just down on one knee and walloped over midwicket to bring up the fifty stand. Good stride, long levers. Bosh
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, a flat-footed under-edged wipe, and that was technically a chance... it was also a mistimed half-tracker
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, worked out to midwicket again
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, flicked to leg
Yasir Shah to Hales, SIX, bang, and that's another one! Not much more than a golf-swing down the ground, a seven-iron maybe, and it plops over the rope, just out of reach of the fielder
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, very solidly forward in defence
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, no run, offspin, on a good length, attecking the stumps and defended cautiously
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 leg bye, tossed up, attempted sweep, big appeal but that pitched just outside the line, I think. But the bowler has reviewed it nonetheless. A bit of a waste that
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, eased up to mid-on
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, worked into the off side, a rarity today
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, on the pads, swiped left again, so to speak
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, down on one knee, a comfortable sweep for another single
Yasir Shah to Root, no run, thumped into the covers, a good stop
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, well timed drive to long-off
Yasir Shah to Hales, 2 runs, tucked off the toes, a bit of an awkward tumble from Wahab who seems to have turned his ankle in the process, but he's staying out there, the hard nut
Yasir Shah to Hales, no run, big stride again, defended
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, back foot push out to cover
Yasir Shah to Root, 2 runs, beautiful placement, that one skidded on outside off stump and he just helped it behind point, a long chase towards the rope
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, forward and defended
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, chipped firmly into the gap behind midwicket
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, up onto the toes, driven into the covers
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, flicked firmly out to midwicket, skiddy but skidding straight onto the bat at the moment
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, in the air and dropped! Wahab, who has been labouring with a sore ankle, is taken by surprise by a reverse dab, in the air, and through his hands at short cover!
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, a more measured single takes hales deeper into the nineties
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, touch short, whipped off the back foot through midwicket and Wahab is able to keep them to a single at long-on
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, flicked along the ground to deep midwicket
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, worked off the pads again into the leg side
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, driven down the ground to long-off
Yasir Shah to Hales, 1 run, comfortably working Yasir around as this one runs through the leg side again
Yasir Shah to Root, FOUR, goes over the top this time, and the tip-tap of singles Root goes for a type of slog-sweep but actually sends it very straight over mid-on. That's his first boundary
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, round the wicket, worked to the leg side, the bowler dives across
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, flicked in the air! But just wide of a diving midwicket, where Rizwan is
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, eased down the ground
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, quicker and flatter at the stumps, pushed back to the bowler
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, pushed square through the leg side, for a moment Hales wanted a second but it wasn't on
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, moves outside leg stump and drives this straight to long-off
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, short of a length outside off, cut off the back foot and finds point
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, fuller this time, Root chases it with a slashing square cut and doesn't make contact
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, keeps a little low outside off, Root playing off the back foot and gets a thick edge to third man
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, round the wicket, on a length outside off, opens the face down to third man
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, he frees his arms at some width outside off, the square drive races to the cover sweeper
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, tight on off stump, defended calmly to the covers
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, no run, excellent work by Rizwan at midwicket to keep Root on strike as he pulls a shorter delivery that doesn't quite get up
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, a reverse sweep towards short third man
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, this one really dies off the surface and Hales can only find cover
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, another dot ball as he stays on 98, punches to midwicket
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, this is good stuff from Iftikhar as he can only find midwicket again
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 2 runs, and there it is! Paddle sweeps from outside leg stump, gets it past short fine leg and that's a maiden ODI hundred, off 111 balls. A very significant moment for Hales and he takes in the applause
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, over the wicket, 91mph, on off stump and defended to point
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, short of a length, pulled through square leg without much timing
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, dragged from outside off and pulled to midwicket
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, slower ball full outside off, jabbed square into the off side...that brings up the hundred stand
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, opens the face and runs down to third man
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, slashes off a thick outside edge, one bounce down to third man
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 run, dragged down short, the ball is dipping as it reaches Hales it was bowled so slowly, Hales swings it to deep square
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, FOUR, very nice placement by Root, gives himself a touch of room then opens the face to slice it between short third man and backward point
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, tucked off the pads to deep square
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, SIX, that's high and handsome! Hales takes a couple of strides down the pitch and hoists this well over long on for his third six
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, OUT, and he's gone now! Goes for a slog sweep, plays over the top of the ball, his back foot is out of the crease, good take from Sarfraz and a neat stumping
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, drives his first ball carefully to cover
Anwar Ali to Root, FOUR, very smart from Root, scoops Anwar's first ball back into the attack over short fine leg to reach his fifty
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, full outside off, steered down to third man
Anwar Ali to Morgan, 2 runs, full and straight, nice piece of timing as he punches it straight of mid-off to open his account
Anwar Ali to Morgan, 2 runs, comes down the pitch, Anwar might have seen him coming and drags the length back, Morgan opens the face to third man and spots it's Irfan
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, full on middle, pushed back to the bowler
Anwar Ali to Morgan, 2 runs, worked off around leg stump, behind square, and that's another brace for Morgan
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, driven off the back foot through the covers
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, skids on into Morgan who has to jab down quite quickly to keep it out
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, flicked from outside off down to long-on where Azam is able to keep it to a single
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, no run, driven to cover
Iftikhar Ahmed to Root, 1 run, onto the back foot and whipped off his pads to deep midwicket
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, played back to the bowler
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, driven off the back foot to deep cover
Yasir Shah to Morgan, SIX, gets enough on this to clear deep midwicket, he came down the pitch but wasn't to the pitch yet just went through with the shot
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 1 run, now he skips back into his crease and pulls to deep midwicket
Yasir Shah to Root, 1 run, driven down to long off
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 1 run, pushed outside off, cut into the covers, can't beat the inner circle
Yasir Shah to Root, no run, plays this very late, almost off the stumps, but guides it straight to short third man
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, well bowled, full and straight, jabbed into the off side
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, slashed away from outside off, down to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, pushed from off stump down the ground
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, takes a bottom edge down to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, top yorker, Morgan can do no more than drill it back to Irfan
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, low full toss, gets a thick outside edge and Sarfraz makes an excellent one-handed stop diving to his left...good comeback over
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, guided down to third man
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, a fast full toss at the stumps, 91mph, and Morgan shovels it to midwicket...think he's broken his bat
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, it's all happening! Nearly a run out as Morgan digs out a terrific yorker, Wahab gets across in his follow through, switches the ball to his strong hand and throws at the stumps. Morgan well out with a hit but gets a single in the end
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, he'd have been run out again! Root drove to mid-off, Morgan was sprinting off, got sent back and was not in the picture but the throw misses and neither was the bowler back at the stumps in time
Wahab Riaz to Root, 1 run, drags a length ball into midwicket...like a pinball machine out there at the moment, throws coming from everywhere
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, gives himself room, drives a full ball but can't beat mid-off
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, goes for the pull and gets a bottom edge to short fine leg
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, perhaps trying to over hit here, Root loses his shape a touch as he tries to heave a length delivery and can't beat Irfan
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, beaten this time outside off as he has a swing and a miss
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, a length delivery is clothed into the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 2 leg byes, full at leg stump, squirted towards fine leg in rather ungainly fashion
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, FOUR, gets this one away, a straight, low full toss which Morgan is able to crunch over midwicket...lands just inside the rope. Welcome boundary for England
Wahab Riaz to Root, no run, full outside off, Root giving himself room and can't make contact
Wahab Riaz to Root, OUT, and the pressure tells! Wahab deserves that. Root has a swing across the line and leg stump gets hit
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, no run, lovely bowling, beats Buttler's outside edge...sign of reverse swing
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, driven through the off side to deep cover
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, another one past the outside edge, wide outside off at 92mph, Morgan tries to slice it away
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, driven in the air but drops short of mid-off...just a single off the over. Outstanding from Wahab
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, FOUR, that's a clean strike, stays in his crease and lofts a full delivery over mid-off
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, no run, now he tries the scoop! Had seen short fine-leg come up. But he's beaten outside off
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, short of a length outside off, clubbed into the covers without any timing, came off the bottom edge
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, gives himself room outside leg but it's another pinpoint yorker which he can only drive to mid-off
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 2 runs, full and straight, opens the face and slices the drive square through the off side wide of the sweepr
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, a sweetly struck square drive but Rizwan at backward point ensures it's just a single
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, tight to the body around leg stump, pushed to mid-off
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, dabbed into the backward point area
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, could have been a run out at both ends! Buttler pushed the ball towards Wahab who dived in his follow through. The batsmen were in the middle of the pitch. He threw at the non-striker's end and missed, while Morgan then dived to make his ground
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, swung into the leg side
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, OUT, he has another! Pakistan's superb finish continues. Buttler is bowled off the pads as he gives himself some room outside leg stump. A slower delivery this time
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, beats the outside edge! This reverses past Taylor as he shuffles across the crease. Ends a magnificent spell from Wahab
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, clubbed from outside off down to long on
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, width outside off, slapped into the covers
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, another slower ball, Morgan can only swing into for a single to deep midwicket
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, driven into the off side, there's a direct hit from cover but Taylor is safe
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, OUT, finds deep midwicket...Morgan trying to clear the leg side, gets too far underneath the delivery so gets more height than distance and lands comfortably in the lap of Azam
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, clipped into the leg side but just five off that over
Anwar Ali to Taylor, no run, slower ball outside off, it's quite wide but Taylor has moved a long way across so it's not called wide
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, excellent, again, as he sends down a slower short ball that completely defeats Taylor's pull...takes the body
Anwar Ali to Ali, 1 run, full outside off, driven down to long off
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, full and straight, swung into the leg side, only one to deep midwicket
Anwar Ali to Ali, 1 run, another slower ball which is paddled to short fine leg
Anwar Ali to Taylor, FOUR, finishes with a boundary as Anwar slips in a full toss at the pads, swung away to fine leg by Taylor
Steyn to Sharma,no run,full ball on off stump, Rohit meets it on the front foot and plays with a straight bat to mid-on
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,good length and straight, Rohit tries to defend but collects a single on the leg side via an inside edge
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,good length just outside off stump, Dhawan comes forward and plays a punchy drive to mid-off
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,a wider ball on a full length, Dhawan tries to play the big front-foot drive through cover but is beaten
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,punched off the back foot towards backward point where Miller dives to his right and bounces up immediately with the ball in hand to prevent the single
Steyn to Dhawan,FOUR,a cracking square drive, Dhawan threads the length ball with perfect timing through the cover point region
Rabada to Sharma,no run,good length just outside off stump, driven to mid off on the front foot
Rabada to Sharma,no run,good length on off and middle, defended with a straight bat towards the bowler
Rabada to Sharma,no run,worked off the pads on the leg side
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,not much room outside off but Rohit manages to cut the short of a length ball towards third man
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,angles the ball into Dhawan, who closes the face of the bat and plays on the leg side
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,a sharp bouncer at 137kph, Dhawan ducks under it
Steyn to Sharma,no run,the good length ball angles into Rohit and then seams away off the pitch at pace, Rohit pushes forward to defend and is beaten
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,a straighter line this time, Rohit works the ball off his hips behind square
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,Dhawan drives the length ball crisply to cover where the fielder dives and deflects the ball towards mid-off, a bit of a mix up between the batsmen while calling
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,punched firmly towards cover point, can't find the gap again
Steyn to Dhawan,1 run,short of a length and straight, Dhawan rolls his wrists and swats the ball down behind square leg
Steyn to Sharma,no run,good length delivery outside off stump, Rohit punches the ball towards cover
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,angles the ball into the left-hander from round the wicket, Dhawan tries to turn the ball off his pads but makes no contact
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,good length on off and middle stump at 138kph, Dhawan plays it back to the bowler with a straight bat
Rabada to Dhawan,1 wide,banged in short but it is far down leg side, too far away for Dhawan to swivel and pull, but he tried
Rabada to Dhawan,FOUR,another short ball and this time Dhawan connects, pulling the ball in the air and just over Behardien at square leg
Rabada to Dhawan,1 run,worked off the back foot with the angle into him towards square leg
Rabada to Sharma,FOUR,sublime timing, Rohit hangs back to a short of a a length ball and drives through cover point, this outfield is extremely quick
Rabada to Sharma,no run,a fuller length on off stump, punched off the front foot to cover
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,driven on the up towards cover
Steyn to Dhawan,FOUR,edged and four! Dhawan drives away from his body at a full ball and gets a thick edge that flies wide of the keeper and too fine for third man
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,short of a length from wide of the crease, angling into the left-hander, Dhawan stays back and blocks
Steyn to Dhawan,FOUR,too short and the line is poor, on leg stump, Dhawan swivels and pulls, beating Tahir on the long leg boundary
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,the slower ball strays down leg side and brushes Dhawan's pads as he tries to glance, de Kock collects
Steyn to Dhawan,no run,good length outside off stump, Dhawan gets behind the line and defends
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,uses the angle into him to nudge the ball off the pads towards midwicket
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,defended from the crease towards mid-off
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,punched off the back foot towards mid-off, once again
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,a slower and fuller ball, Dhawan plays it back to the bowler
Rabada to Dhawan,1 wide,strays down leg side this time, another wide
Rabada to Dhawan,no run,banged in short, it did not get too high, Dhawan muscles the pull but hits it towards the man at midwicket
Rabada to Dhawan,FOUR,another short ball goes for four, this around the wicket line is not working for Rabada. Dhawan gets on top of the bounce and rolls his wrists to pull the ball along the ground through square leg
Behardien to Sharma,FOUR,a full and wide ball, Rohit meets it on the front foot and opens the face to drive through point for four
Behardien to Sharma,no run,defended on the off side
Behardien to Sharma,no run,gets behind the line of a good length ball and defends with a straight bat to the bowler
Behardien to Sharma,FOUR,width outside off stump, Rohit waits in his crease and dabs the ball late, beats short third man easily
Behardien to Sharma,1 run,dabbed on the front foot for a single towards the off side
Behardien to Dhawan,1 run,a full ball on the pads, flicked to the man at deep square leg
Morkel to Dhawan,no run,a good length ball cramping Dhawan for room, he plays it towards point
Morkel to Dhawan,no run,a fuller ball outside off, Dhawan presses forward and drives to mid-off
Morkel to Dhawan,OUT,given lbw! But was that missing leg? The ball was quite full from round the wicket, angling into the left-hander. Dhawan was caught on the crease and hit on the pad as he looked to play on the leg side. Morkel went up immediately, and the umpire followed after a short pause ... it did look like that would have missed leg stump, or just about clipped it.
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,worked off the pads behind square for a single
Morkel to Sharma,no run,short of a length outside off stump, left alone by Rohit
Morkel to Sharma,no run,138kph, in the blockhole, Rohit stays in his crease and defends on the off side
Rabada to Rahane,no run,turned off the pads towards the leg side
Rabada to Rahane,1 wide,strays down leg side, that's a wide
Rabada to Rahane,no run,a loud appeal for a strangle down the leg side, think that brushed Rahane's thigh pad as he tried to glance
Rabada to Rahane,no run,good length outside off stump, defended firmly on the front foot
Rabada to Rahane,FOUR,a cracking drive from Rahane, he hit that so hard into the ground that the ball bounced over the head of the leaping fielder at cover and raced to the boundary
Rabada to Rahane,no run,good length and closer to the batsman, he defends on the front foot
Rabada to Rahane,1 run,stays back to a short of a length delivery and dabs the ball towards third man
Morkel to Rahane,no run,driven on the up on the front foot towards cover
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,worked off the pads through square leg for a single, India bring up their 50
Morkel to Sharma,1 wide,that's too wide outside off stump
Morkel to Sharma,FOUR,full ball with width outside off, Rohit leans forward and plays a square drive behind point, Tahir's dive on the boundary is unsuccessful
Morkel to Sharma,FOUR,too full and way too much with, Rohit glides on to the front foot and plays such an elegant cover drive. Ordinary ball, outstanding shot
Morkel to Sharma,no run,good length outside off, Rohit lets it go
Morkel to Sharma,no run,once again Rohit lets the good length ball go outside off
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,played to long on for a single
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,tossed up on off and middle, Rohit leans forward and taps the ball towards long on
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,another single to long on, Rahane moves forward and drives a full ball
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,a full ball on off stump, once again the batsmen just pushes it to long on off the front foot
Duminy to Rahane,no run,defended on the front foot, Duminy's length was a little shorter and his pace quicker
Duminy to Rahane,2 runs,a full delivery with lots of room to drive, Rahane strides out and hits the ball through cover, Amla slides and saves the boundary in the deep
Rabada to Sharma,no run,119 kph, a slower ball, Rohit came forward a touch too early but waited and defended the ball well towards the off side
Rabada to Sharma,FOUR,poor line, on the pads, all Rohit needs to do is turn it around the corner and he does it with a deft glance
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,steered to third man for a single
Rabada to Rahane,no run,good length on off stump, pushed from the crease towards cover
Rabada to Rahane,no run,another slower ball, 122kph, Rahane plays the ball to the bowler
Rabada to Rahane,no run,another slow one, 125kph, Rabada is rolling his wrist over the ball as he delivers, Rahane comes forward and plays it to mid off
Duminy to Sharma,no run,tossed up on off and middle, played back to the bowler on the front foot
Duminy to Sharma,no run,defended from the crease on the leg side
Duminy to Sharma,SIX,he gives Duminy the charge, gets to the pitch of the ball, and hoists the ball far over the short long-on boundary with a free swing of the arms
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,steps out again but plays a defensive shot this time towards mid-on
Duminy to Rahane,no run,Duminy moves quickly to his right to cut off a front-foot punch from Rahane
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,paddles the ball around the corner for a single
Rabada to Rahane,no run,that's a high full toss, Rahane plays it towards midwicket, he was out of his crease as he played that so not a no-ball
Rabada to Rahane,no run,dabs the ball towards backward point, Rahane wanted one but Rohit said no
Rabada to Rahane,no run,a short ball, Rahane swats it towards midwicket, keeps it along the ground
Rabada to Rahane,1 run,short of a length with width outside off, dabbed down to third man off the back foot
Rabada to Sharma,no run,good length on off and middle, defended from the crease on the leg side
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,pushed off he front foot towards point, opened the face of the bat just enough to beat the diving fielder at backward point
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,punched off the back foot and they stroll a single once the ball beats Amla's dive from midwicket
Duminy to Rahane,5 wides,strays far down leg side that time, Rahane tries to paddle but is passes him and also beats de Kock for five wides
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,punched off the back foot uppishly past the bowler, diving to his right at full stretch, he got fingers on the ball but not enough to grasp it
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,played to midwicket for a single
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,a full ball on off stump, driven to long on for a single
Duminy to Sharma,no run,goes back in his crease and works the ball in front of square, Rohit wanted one but gets sent back
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,nudged off the front foot to long on
Morkel to Sharma,no run,good length outside off, Rohit presses forward and drives on the up to mid off
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,the slow ball ends up as a high full toss that dips below waist height, Rohit jumps back and taps the ball through square leg
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,width offered outside off stump, cut into the deep for a single to bring up the 50 stand
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,reaches out for a short and very wide ball and chips it over point, giving Tahir work on the boundary
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,short of a length outside off, dabbed down to third man
Morkel to Sharma,no run,good length and straight, driven on the up to mid-off
Imran Tahir to Rahane,no run,loopy ball on off, Rahane inches forward and defends it
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,Tahir attempts a googly and drags it fractionally short. Rahane goes low and sweeps it through backward square leg
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,Rohit seeks to drive this legbreak and skews it to midwicket off an inside edge
Imran Tahir to Sharma,FOUR,Tahir drops it short again, this is tagged with hitting room. Rohit camps on the back foot and sends it scurrying past the covers with a firm cut... Even AB can't cut that off
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,Tahir gives this more air, dabbed towards point
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,Rohit strides forward to meet this full ball, which is calmly blocked back to Tahir
Morkel to Rahane,no run,Morne hits that customary back of a length, the line is outside off. Rahane stands tall and punches it straight to point
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,Morne sucks pace off this back-of-a-length ball outside off. 123ks, Rahane waits on it, opens the face and dabs a single down to third man to bring up India's 100
Morkel to Sharma,no run,shortish and hurries on off at 140ks, Rohit can only chop it to point
Morkel to Sharma,FOUR,short, loads of width and Rohit likes it there. Morne hurls it short and wide outside off. Rohit opens the face of the bat and carves it over backward point for his fifty
Morkel to Sharma,FOUR,much fuller and straighter, Rohit checks his flick and finds the teeny weeny gap between midwicket and mid-on
Morkel to Sharma,no run,Morne roars an appeal for lbw, the umpire, though, does not budge. Fullish and curls in, Rohit aims to play across the line and misses the flick. Sliding down leg..
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,straight roller on middle, nudged to square leg
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,fullish ball on middle, Rohit presses forward and taps it to mid-off
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,looks like a googly, comes back in. Rohit hangs back and milks a single in front of midwicket
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,pushed through flatter and quicker, bunted to the leg side for one
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,looped up on middle, Rohit drives it smoothly to long-off
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,Tahir shortens his length, Rahane is wary of it as he sits back and plays a whippy punch behind square on the leg side
Morkel to Rahane,no run,back of a length and outside off, Rahane plays a punchy drive to short cover, where Faf flings to his right and makes a sharp save
Morkel to Rahane,no run,good length and outside off, Rahane drives firmly but hits it straight into the covers
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,dug in shortish and outside off, Rahane cuts it to the off-side sweeper for one
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,slower ball outside off at 121ks, Rohit spots it, waits for it, and then steers it down to third man
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,back of a length and around off, Rahane twirls it behind square leg for one
Morkel to Sharma,no run,Morne offers a full toss, Rohit misses out on the loose ball. He looks to force it away but can only mis-hit it back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Rahane,no run,cut off the back foot but can't beat the man at point
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,a full ball on middle, driven to long on for one more
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,the legbreak outside off stump, flat through the air, dabbed off the back foot to short third man
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,slower ball, the legbreak pitches on middle this time, Rohit defends on the front foot
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,defended on the front foot again into a gap on the leg side
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,tossed up on off and middle, Rahane moves forward and drives through midwicket
Steyn to Rahane,no run,good length on middle and off, Rahane stays in his crease and defends on the leg side
Steyn to Rahane,no run,pushed off the front foot towards mid on
Steyn to Rahane,no run,a full ball with some movement into the right-hander, Rahane pushes to mid-on once again
Steyn to Rahane,no run,good length on off and middle, Rahane stays in his crease and blocks
Steyn to Rahane,1 run,a full ball on the pads, flicked uppishly through square leg
Steyn to Sharma,no run,played off the front foot towards mid-on
Imran Tahir to Rahane,no run,defended back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,gets down on one knee and plays a swatty sweep down to long leg
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,leans forward and flicks a full ball towards wide long on
Imran Tahir to Rahane,FOUR,steps out of his crease to a full toss and lofts it inside out over extra cover, chipping into the gap on the boundary
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,driven to long on for a single
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,defended on the front foot
Steyn to Rahane,1 wide,a full ball tails down the leg side, wide called
Steyn to Rahane,1 run,good length and straight, Rahane moves forward and drives to long off and runs
Steyn to Sharma,no run,a full ball on the pads, clipped to midwicket
Steyn to Sharma,no run,driven on the front foot towards cover
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,short of a length outside off and Rohit pulls the ball through square leg
Steyn to Rahane,no run,flicked off the front foot towards midwicket
Steyn to Rahane,no run,good length around off, Steyn is getting the ball to move into the right-hander, Rahane plays it towards midwicket
Behardien to Sharma,no run,Rohit tries to drive but gets an outside edge to short third man
Behardien to Sharma,no run,driven on the front foot to cover
Behardien to Sharma,no run,a good length ball at gentle pace on off stump, driven from the crease into the covers
Behardien to Sharma,no run,driven off the front foot towards wide long on but it does not get there because midwicket cuts it off
Behardien to Sharma,1 run,driven past the fielder in the circle at cover, Amla fields in the deep
Behardien to Rahane,FOUR,A short ball outside off, a hit-me-please delivery, Rahane pulls it to the wide long on boundary
Steyn to Sharma,2 runs,played to deep midwicket for two more
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,tucked off the pads through square leg for one more
Steyn to Rahane,no run,a full and straight delivery, Rahane gets on to the front foot and drives straight, Steyn stops the ball with his boot
Steyn to Rahane,1 run,a length ball on off and middle, Rahane plays it to long on for a single
Steyn to Sharma,no run,the good length ball around off stops on Rohit a bit, he adjusts and defends the ball towards point
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,Steyn dives across during his follow through to try and stop Rohit's push down the ground but he can't cut it off
Behardien to Sharma,no run,played to midwicket
Behardien to Sharma,1 run,tapped off the pads towards the leg side
Behardien to Rahane,no run,Rahane plays the ball to short cover
Behardien to Rahane,no run,punched off the back foot towards cover
Behardien to Rahane,FOUR,Rahane ruins the over for the bowler by getting down low and opening the face to steer a full and wide ball past short third man, that shot brings up the 100 prtnership
Behardien to Rahane,1 wide,strays down leg side for a wide
Behardien to Rahane,1 run,pushed off the front foot into the covers
Imran Tahir to Rahane,no run,tossed up on off stump, Rahane drives firmly to the bowler and Tahir can't make a clean stop
Imran Tahir to Rahane,no run,defended on the leg side
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,a fuller length delivery, driven towards wide long on for one
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,the legbreak beats Rohit in the flight as he stretches forward to defend, it then dips and spins past the outside edge, Quinton de Kock breaks the stumps, but Rohit did not take his back foot outside the crease at all
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,a full ball outside off, the batsmen comes forward and drives fluently to wide long off
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,a low full toss, flicked through square leg for a single
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,cut off the back foot towards deep cover
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,Rohit waits in his crease for a flat ball from round the wicket and hits it to long on
Duminy to Rahane,1 run,goes back and towards leg and makes room to hit the ball through cover point
Duminy to Sharma,SIX,a cracking slog sweep from Rohit! He got down really low and took the ball from outside off stump, hitting the ball against the angle from round the wicket over deep square leg
Duminy to Sharma,2 runs,reaches for a wide one outside off and drives the ball through point
Duminy to Sharma,1 run,dabbed with soft hands behind point for a single
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,driven off the front foot through extra cover for a single
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,a full ball on middle and leg, nudged off the pads through square leg
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,pushed towards long off for another single
Imran Tahir to Rahane,1 run,nudged down to long on to bring up a half-century, it's taken him 67 balls, well played but India need him to kick on
Imran Tahir to Sharma,FOUR,Excellent placement, it was a flighted googly and Rohit lofts it inside out over extra cover for four
Imran Tahir to Sharma,SIX,and again, only this time he's hit it for six! Rohit makes room and lofts the ball inside out over extra cover, superb timing and the outfield is a small one to clear. It was the legbreak this time but that did not matter
Morkel to Rahane,no run,good length on off and middle, played to mid-on
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,punched uppishly through point for a single
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,a length ball with width outside off, Rohit reaches for it and opens the face to steer behind point towards third man
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,driven fluently on the up through extra cover
Morkel to Sharma,no run,turned off the pads towards midwicket
Morkel to Sharma,no run,good length around off stump, Rohit tries to punch down the ground but gets an inside edge on the leg side
Behardien to Rahane,FOUR,a half-volley outside off stump and Rahane beats the fielder on the cover boundary with a fluent drive off the front foot, too much room from the bowler
Behardien to Rahane,1 run,drags his length shorter and so Rahane waits on the back foot and turns the ball off his pads through square
Behardien to Sharma,1 run,punched through point for a single
Behardien to Rahane,no run,pushed towards midwicket from the crease
Behardien to Rahane,no run,that swung a bit, the batsman stays in his crease and defends
Behardien to Rahane,1 run,a length ball on off and middle, driven to long on for a single
Morkel to Rahane,no run,good length around off stump, Rahane stays in his crease and punches towards point
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,good length, angling into middle from outside off, nudged off the pads past midwicket for a single to wide mid-on
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,poor line, strays on to the pads and Rohit plays the glance towards fine leg
Morkel to Rahane,1 run,the ball cuts into the right-hander, who was trying to push down the ground but gets an inside edge towards square leg
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,full toss on the pads, glanced once again towards long leg
Morkel to Rahane,no run,good length outside off stump, Rahane tries to dab on the off side but gets an inside edge on the leg side, he wasn't quite sure where that went
Behardien to Sharma,1 run,driven on the front foot towards long off
Behardien to Rahane,no run,short of a length delivery, Rahane swipes across the line and doesn't make proper contact, hits it to short fine leg
Behardien to Rahane,no run,cut off the back foot towards point, doesn't find the gap
Behardien to Rahane,OUT,a soft dismissal to break the stand! Rahane made room by moving outside leg and slapped an innocuous delivery straight to Miller at extra cover. His partnership with Rohit ends on 149
Behardien to Kohli,no run,good length on off stump, defended on the front foot to the bowler
Behardien to Kohli,1 run,flicked off the pads through square leg for a single
Morkel to Kohli,1 wide,Morkel flirts with the wide line, and the umpire says he's on the wrong side of it outside off
Morkel to Kohli,1 run,Kohli reaches for a wide ball outside off and drives to deep point
Morkel to Sharma,no run,hits a good length outside off and cuts back into the right-hander, beating Rohit's inside edge as he tries to cut
Morkel to Sharma,no run,good length on off stump, defended on the front foot on the off side
Morkel to Sharma,no run,Rohit tries to defend a ball that jags into him from a good length outside off and gets an inside edge on to the thigh, he played that from the crease
Morkel to Sharma,no run,a fuller length outside off, Rohit meets it on the front foot and defends solidly
Morkel to Sharma,no run,defended on the front foot towards the bowler
Behardien to Kohli,1 run,nudged off a middle stump line in front of square to rotate strike
Behardien to Sharma,FOUR,Rohit gets to his hundred by flicking a full ball flat over midwicket's head, and beating the fielding diving after chasing from long on ... he's played such a fluent innings today, looked in no trouble whatsoever, off only 98 balls
Behardien to Sharma,no run,driven on the up to cover
Behardien to Sharma,no run,driven on the front foot to extra cover
Behardien to Sharma,1 run,worked off the pads through square leg
Behardien to Kohli,1 run,driven to long on for a single
Imran Tahir to Kohli,1 run,dabbed off the back foot behind square for a single
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,the legbreak pitches middle and spins towards off, bowled flat though, the batsman pushes towards the off side, the keeper runs to field
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,bowled flatter and quicker outside off, Rohit tries to cut and is beaten
Imran Tahir to Sharma,no run,Rohit gets squared up and beaten by a legbreak that pitches on middle and spins past the outside edge of his forward push
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,played through the covers for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,no run,a googly and Kohli turns the ball off the pads towards square leg, Rohit hares down for a single but Kohli sends him back, Rohit turns and sprints back and manages to beat the direct hit quite easily
Steyn to Sharma,no run,good length around off stump, driven to mid off but not timed well
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,the ball nips in from a good length and Rohit drives with a straight bat past the bowler, mid-off does the fielding
Steyn to Kohli,no run,good length outside off, Kohli stays in his crease, moves a bit across and plays the ball towards mid on
Steyn to Kohli,no run,driven firmly towards the bowler, Steyn can't get his legs out of the way in time and the ball deflects off his boot to mid-on. That hit his shin actually, must have stung.
Steyn to Kohli,2 runs,a full ball outside off, Kohli strides forward and drives through cover
Steyn to Kohli,no run,tight wicket to wicket bowling from Steyn, Kohli stays in his crease and defends on the leg side
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,superb fielding on the boundary from Behardien, he ran a long way from long on towards deep midwicket and dived to stop the ball with one hand, Rohit had flicked that crisply, saved three runs
Imran Tahir to Kohli,no run,defended on the off side
Imran Tahir to Kohli,no run,played off the front foot to cover
Imran Tahir to Kohli,1 run,Kohli manages to hit the ball through the gap at cover this time
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,pushed off the front foot towards long on for a single
Imran Tahir to Kohli,no run,stays back and dabs the ball from very close to off stump towards short third man, Kohli think about a single but Rohit says no
Steyn to Sharma,no run,driven firmly along the ground but straight to mid-off
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,good length on off stump, the batsman moves forward and drives to long on for a single
Steyn to Kohli,1 run,a length ball outside off, Kohli square drives through point for a single
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,full and straight, the batsman mis-times the drive down the ground and the ball sputters towards long on
Steyn to Kohli,2 runs,turned off the pads through midwicket, the call is for two and that's what they get, Steyn wasn't too happy about the fielding effort
Steyn to Kohli,OUT,has he been caught at short fine leg? What a take! Steyn bowled a half-volley on the pads, a delivery Kohli should have put away. He flicked the ball uppishly but it was dying on the tall Morne Morkel at short fine leg. Morkel got down low and caught the ball in his fingertips before it hit the ground. Is the tide turning decisively now?
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,riven uppishly through extra cover for a single
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,1 run,Dhoni runs down the track an taps the ball towards long on for a single
Imran Tahir to Sharma,SIX,Rohit has got to play a huge role from here if India are going to win this and he winds up and slams Tahir powerfully, flat over the midwicket boundary
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,driven along the ground to long on for a single
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,1 run,driven on the front foot to long off for one more
Imran Tahir to Sharma,1 run,nudged off the front foot to long on, ten runs off that over
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,good length delivery aimed outside off, Rohit gets on his toes and wristily flicks to deep square leg
Rabada to Dhoni,2 leg byes,back of a length but strays on Dhoni's pads, it pings off his thigh pad and rolls towards fine leg. Dhoni is quick to call Rohit back for the second
Rabada to Dhoni,1 run,calmly pushes the fullish delivery to long-on
Rabada to Sharma,FOUR,is that six? Poor delivery from Rabada. Back of a length on Rohit's rib cage with fine leg up. All Rohit needs to do is get bat on it and that he does, lands just inside the boundary too.
Rabada to Sharma,1 wide,pressure on Rabada. Fires one down leg side now. Called wide
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,better lines. Good length outside off, Rohit chops one down to third man for an easy single
Rabada to Dhoni,no run,another poor delivery. Short and wide with third man up but Dhoni pats the ball to backward point
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,a good length ball cramps Rohit for room, he tucks it behind square for one more
Morkel to Dhoni,1 run,good length just outside off, Dhoni simply waits in his crease and pushes the ball into the gap at cover
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,a fuller ball on middle, Rohit moves across and swats the ball off his pads towards Steyn at long leg
Morkel to Dhoni,1 run,oh dear, there is chaos all round in the middle but the batsmen are safe in the end. Dhoni dabbed the ball towards point where the substitute Phangiso got to the ball quickly. Dhoni ran for the single, Rohit did not want it, Dhoni stopped, and then Rohit ran, both batsmen were in the middle of the pitch but de Kock had not come up to the stumps, he collected the throw near short leg and missed the underarm back at the stumps. Rohit would have been out despite his tired dive.
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,pushed down the ground for one
Morkel to Dhoni,1 run,played to long on for a single
Rabada to Dhoni,1 leg bye,worked off the pads behind square for a single
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,Rohit swipes across the line but does not make proper contact, the ball gets to the fielder at deep midwicket on the first bounce
Rabada to Dhoni,1 run,a slower ball, Dhoni nudges it to midwicket and gives Rohit the strike
Rabada to Sharma,FOUR,139 kph and that's disappeared! Rohit is ready and waiting for the short ball on the front foot and he swivels and pulls to the deep backward square leg boundary, it pitches just short of the rope
Rabada to Sharma,1 run,dabbed towards third man for one
Rabada to Dhoni,no run,good length at 137kph outside off stump, Dhoni stands in his crease and swipes away from is body, wasn't close to hitting that well
Morkel to Sharma,SIX,Rohit's doing this entirely off his own bat now, he moves towards the off side and flicks the length ball from outside off stump and just manages to clear Rabada on the square leg boundary, I think Rabada mis-judged that chance
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,goes inside out this time and chips the ball over cover
Morkel to Dhoni,no run,jumps down the track and gets into a tangle because he has no room to play the delivery angling into him, gets an inside edge on the leg side
Morkel to Dhoni,1 run,stays in his crease and hits the ball towards cover
Morkel to Sharma,1 run,played with soft hands towards cover, the fielder is on the edge of the circle
Morkel to Dhoni,no run,Dhoni is caught in an awkward half-forward position as he pushes a good length ball towards midwicket
Steyn to Sharma,2 runs,pulled towards deep midwicket, two fielders converge on the ball and there's a bit of a fumble which allows a second
Steyn to Sharma,SIX,pulled over square leg! He simply swats a short of a length ball, using Steyn's pace to full effect. These two have now added 50, Dhoni's made 8 ...
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,played into the off side for a single
Steyn to Dhoni,1 run,in the blockhole, Dhoni makes room and axes the ball down the ground to long on
Steyn to Sharma,1 run,Rohit punches the good length ball firmly to Amla at cover to take the single and bring up his 150 ... he's done tremendously for India today, they need him to see this through
Steyn to Dhoni,no run,Dhoni hacks the ball to cover, where Amla fields, no single but Rohit will have the strike
Imran Tahir to Sharma,OUT,he's been caught and bowled! Rohit stepped out of his crease but was beaten by the flight of the legbreak, he wasn't to the pitch of the ball and ended up punching it tamely right back at Tahir, who sets off on an epic celebratory run after taking the catch. He'll tire himself out on such a hot day!
Imran Tahir to Raina,1 run,pushed off the front foot to long on for a single
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,1 run,a full toss on the pads, Dhoni simply taps it towards deep square leg, a younger him might have blitzed that
Imran Tahir to Raina,2 runs,mis-times the slog sweep - the ball was a bit full - and Raina manages to force the ball off the inside edge towards deep square leg
Imran Tahir to Raina,OUT,Tahir has got another one! Raina has barely had a chance to get his eye in but he can't afford to either. He aims to slam a googly over the midwicket boundary and ends up mis-hitting it towards long on, where Duminy takes the catch
Imran Tahir to Binny,no run,Binny strides forward and defends the final ball of the over. What a finish from Tahir, two wickets and four runs in his tenth over
Rabada to Dhoni,2 runs,turned a length ball off his pads behind square but Morkel fumbles the sliding stop at short fine leg and allows a second
Rabada to Dhoni,2 runs,played with very soft hands into the midwicket region, which is empty, and the batsmen have fresh legs to sprint back for the second
Rabada to Dhoni,2 runs,two more! Superb running. Dhoni jumps towards the leg side and cuts the ball through point, the fielder in the deep can't get the ball back quickly enough
Rabada to Dhoni,1 run,dabs it straight to short third man and runs a single
Rabada to Binny,1 leg bye,a length ball on the pads, turned behind square off the pads for a leg bye
Rabada to Dhoni,1 run,good length and straight, Dhoni hits the ball off the front foot to midwicket
Steyn to Dhoni,2 runs,once more Dhoni's legs make up for what his bat can't do, he just taps the ball gently towards midwicket, where the fielder is on the boundary, and sprints through for two ...
Steyn to Dhoni,1 run,good length ball angles into Dhoni and he gets hit on the thigh as he tries to turn the ball towards square, they run a leg bye as the ball drops at Dhoni's feet. Dhoni seems to be in a little discomfort, holding his side
Steyn to Binny,1 run,the full ball swings into the right-hander, Binny drives to long -on
Steyn to Dhoni,FOUR,Dhoni finally has a boundary! He moves across towards the off side, gets down low, and scoops the ball from outside off to the fine leg boundary
Steyn to Dhoni,2 runs,Dhoni steps out of his crease and slaps the length ball to deep cover, where Amla can't prevent the second
Steyn to Dhoni,1 run,cut hard but Phangiso dives to his left at point and makes a crucial save, that was headed to the boundary
Rabada to Dhoni,2 runs,a fumble from Behardien at deep midwicket gives Dhoni the second run and the strike! Dhoni had swiped across the line at a short of a length ball and made good contact
Rabada to Dhoni,1 run,Dhoni charges and is cramped for room as he pulls, the ball goes to deep midwicket, just the single this time, Binny will have the strike
Rabada to Binny,1 run,Binny flat bats the ball past Rabada, not timing it well, over to Dhoni now. Seven needed off three balls.
Rabada to Dhoni,OUT,Dhoni has been caught and bowled! This is an innings that will be discussed for a while now. He's charged the young fast bowler and aimed a slog across the line, he top edged the ball high in the air and Rabada calls for it coolly and takes the catch. Dhoni fails to see India through, they need seven off two balls.
Rabada to Binny,OUT,Rabada has all but done it for South Africa! Binny also too edges the pull and skies the catch to square leg, Rabada tries to go for it himself again, but leaves it to Amla who comes running in to catch it.
Rabada to Kumar,1 run,the final ball is limply hit past the bowler for a single. Rabada stands tall in a high pressure situation, defending 11 in the final over to give South Africa a 1-0 lead
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, over the wicket, fired in full and blocked back towards the bowler
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, OUT, bowled him, straight through the defences! Irfan strikes second ball, sending Roy back to the hutch... Played with a slightly crooked bat, looking to force a length ball towards mid-on, there was a touch of seam movement back in and it burst the stumps after flicking the front pad
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, pitched up and punched into the off side coming forwards
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, slightly back of a length, Root drops back and dabs in front of square
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, woof, that's a steepler, flying through from slightly back of a length as Root chases it outside off
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, tighter line, defended into the covers
Anwar Ali to Hales, FOUR, over the wicket, pitched up on off stump and Hales larrups it straight back past the bowler to get going first ball
Anwar Ali to Hales, 3 runs, strays on to the pads this time and Hales clips three through backward square, Irfan lumbering round the boundary to stick a boot in the way
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, pushed into the covers coming forwards
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, full outside the line of off, punched back towards mid-off
Anwar Ali to Root, OUT, rapped on the pads, the ball nipping back past inside edge... and given! Root decides to review after a brief word with Hales but this looked pretty adjacent, he was stuck on the crease and hit around the knee roll, looked like it would have juddered leg stump. Here comes Hawk-Eye... Yes, hitting the top of leg on umpire's call and Root heads off for a seven-ball duck having wasted England's one review
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, angled across the left-hander in the channel, lets it go
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, lets this one go outside off
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, plays off the back foot and edges but the ball stays very low, bounces short of Sarfraz
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, gets across and defends around off stump
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 3 runs, full on the pads, 88mph and timed sweetly through midwicket, though it holds up in the outfield
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, fullish on middle and off, Morgan pats it back down the track
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, FOUR, here come the short ball, testing Morgan's mettle... and it flies over Sarfraz and away! Morgan went for the pull, think it came off his forearm and just about cleared the keeper
Anwar Ali to Hales, OUT, swishes outside off, nicked and taken at slip! Younis juggles the chance but holds on, to then be mobbed by his team-mates. The old magic hasn't quite faded and England are three down for spit
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, sliding on to the pads, flicked away through backward square for one
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, good length, in the channel outside off, Morgan happy to leave
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, length delivery, 80mph and slightly too close to cut, bottom-edged towards point
Anwar Ali to Morgan, FOUR, not all that short, not all that wide but it's slashed punishingly through cover point for a boundary to Morgan
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, tighter line, pushed towards mid-off
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, pitched up around the line of off, punched back down the track
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, back of a length, dabbed down into the covers
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, fullish, comes forward and defends
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, tight line from Irfan, 87mph on the stumps, Taylor gets on top of it again
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, slightly overpitched and Taylor rifles it back through mid-on... Well, almost through mid-on but Bilal makes an excellent diving stop to prevent any runs
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, pushed back down the track
Anwar Ali to Morgan, 1 run, slanted across, Morgan drops back outside off and chops behind point
Anwar Ali to Taylor, no run, off-stump line, Taylor dabs it softly back towards the bowler
Anwar Ali to Taylor, no run, angled in and worked back towards mid-on
Anwar Ali to Taylor, no run, comes forward to a length ball and pokes it back to the bowler
Anwar Ali to Taylor, FOUR, shuffles across and whips the ball wristily through midwicket, lovely timing and the ball races away out of the middle - Taylor's first boundary
Anwar Ali to Taylor, no run, length ball around off stump, turned short into the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 2 runs, bangs in the short ball, plenty of bounce but there's not quite the pace in the pitch to trouble Morgan and he's up on his tippy-toes to swat through backward point for a couple wide of fine leg
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, length ball, clipped off the pads through midwicket
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, slightly back of a length, Taylor takes his bottom hand of the bat as he defends in the crease
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, length delivery, 87mph and tailing away outside off, Taylor leaves it be
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, gadzooks, that's not come out right! Almost a beamer at wee Titch Taylor (so a low full toss to most batsmen), outside off and he swung and missed, not called a no-ball, either, though it looked above waist height
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, length ball, shuffles into line and defends
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, tight lines from Anwar, pushed back down the track
Anwar Ali to Morgan, FOUR, oh, nearly flicked to midwicket! Morgan manufactured a shovel off his pads and it was just out of reach of the flying fielder
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, length ball, tucked into the leg side
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, on the stumps, pushed towards mid-off
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, Morgan comes forward and drives gently towards mid-off
Anwar Ali to Morgan, 1 leg bye, slower ball, on the pads and dinked through backward square for one
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, round the wicket, straightening on off stump, keeps a little low and Morgan blocks
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, FOUR, gives this a bit more air, drifting on to the pads and it's swept confidently past backward square for four
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, angled in on the stumps, tapped back toward the bowler
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, tossed up, pushed into the covers
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, comes forward and punches this into a gap wide of mid-off for one
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, over the wicket to Taylor, tossed up and he scampers out, hits it straight to midwicket
Anwar Ali to Morgan, FOUR, sound the alarm! Morgan dances out and lofts Anwar over mid-on, one-bounce four! Proactive stuff and sweetly struck
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, length ball, around off stump, chopped into the turf
Anwar Ali to Morgan, no run, good length just outside off, Morgan dabs it into the covers
Anwar Ali to Morgan, FOUR, length ball outside off and driven on the up through the overs for four more. Morgan is oozing class here
Anwar Ali to Morgan, 1 run, switches to round the wicket, 80mph in the channel, Morgan inside-edges between his legs trying to force through the off side
Anwar Ali to Taylor, no run, back over the wicket, turned to leg from around off stump
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, floated up outside off, reaches forward and drives to the cover sweeper
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, skips out and pushes one more to long-on
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, tossed up around off stump, Morgan dabs to short extra cover
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, flighted, comes forward, drives another single back past the bowler to long-off
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 2 runs, cheeky from Taylor, down on one knee and he scoops one over Sarfraz's outstretched left arm for a couple to fine leg - that's the 50 up for England
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, flighted, comes forward on off stump, clips one to long-on
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 2 runs, length, spinning away outside off, drops back and chops a couple through backward point
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, tossed up, comes forward and drills one more to long-on
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 1 run, flighted, on the stumps, Morgan chops it into the ground towards backward point
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, drops back and pokes the ball square
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, gives it some air, Taylor gets out to the pitch and punches another single down the ground
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, gives it a rip, Morgan presses forward to defend on off stump
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, pushed back to the bowler, Taylor hurriedly regains his ground
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 2 runs, floated up, Taylor's down early to again ramp the ball over the keeper for a couple more
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, skips forward and punches a single towards long-on
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, round the wicket, popped on a length, blocked back to the bowler
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, Morgan leans out and pushes to the off side, Malik fields off his own bowling
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, angled in, worked against the spin into a gap at midwicket
Yasir Shah to Morgan, FOUR, superbly done from Morgan, looking a millions dirhams today, reverses the hands to swat four past backward point - that raises the 50 stand between these two, doing a good job of righting England's ship
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 3 runs, flighted, around the line of off, Morgan gets forward this time and drives into a gap at wide long-off for three
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, angled in on the stumps, worked back towards mid-on, who's a little deep and they take one
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, on the stumps, can't get this one away
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, flighted, pushed into the off side
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, tossed up, Morgan works it back into the on side and Yasir fields
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, presses forward and defends back to the bowler
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, worked into a gap on the leg side for one
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, tossed up, Morgan plays across the line towards midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, drops back and in the crease and clips the ball off his legs through square
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, angled in from round the wicket, pushed defensively into the off side
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, FOUR, fractionally short and slapped through backward point, played very late and struck firmly past the fielder to pick up four more
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, good length on off stump. Punched firmly down the ground and a hustled quick single as mid-off slides to gather
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, guided into the covers, on the back foot, forcing the gaps
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, lovely ball, ghosting past a flat-footed prod as Morgan tries to run a single to third man
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, this time he succeeds in his aim, an open-faced steer safely through the vacant cordon
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, on the toes, clipped to backward square
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, shuffles into line to defend
Bilal Asif to Taylor, 1 run, sharp turn from middle to leg, clipped to midwicket and a direct hit would have been tight!
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, hanging on the back foot, slow turn and angled to point
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, Morgan stands tall on the back foot again, pushed to cover
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, Morgan stands tall on the back foot again, pushed to cover
Bilal Asif to Morgan, 1 run, chopped out to point again, a bit of a pattern
Bilal Asif to Taylor, 1 run, cut hard, a bit of bounce on off stump, down to third man
Bilal Asif to Morgan, FOUR, short, slapped, lovely. The captain shows that that blow on the head has not upset his impressive run of form. Another half-century, his eighth fifty in 11 ODIs
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, outside off, a wafty cut, no connection
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, on the toes, clipped to square leg
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, on the hip, tucked around the corner
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, squared up a touch by some extra lift
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, short and an attempted pull, no connection, good heat from Wahab, as you would expect ...
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, on the back foot, pushed to mid-on. Just the single in a hostile over
Bilal Asif to Taylor, 1 run, outside off, down the track, whisked into the leg side
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, low full toss, poked back to the bowler, who gathers on the bounce as Taylor dives back into his crease as a precaution
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, forward and defended down the track
Bilal Asif to Morgan, FOUR, a bit of length to work with, played very late, chopped backward of point. Lovely gap-finding
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, forward and sniffing the leather in defence
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, dead-batted to complete the over
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, forward and defended
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, FOUR, driven sweetly, a touch wide, on the up, with a follow-through that walloped then wobbled like a trapdoor being released on a spring. Fetch that
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, forward and pushed out to cover
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, worked into the gap
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, swept
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, defended urgently on the back foot
Bilal Asif to Morgan, 1 run, forward and blocked down the track, with a closed face, always working the angles
Bilal Asif to Taylor, 1 run, round the wicket, tossed up, slapped into the deep, one bounce and gathered
Bilal Asif to Morgan, 1 run, over the wicket this time, lots of width and chopped out to third man
Bilal Asif to Taylor, no run, tossed right up to the toes, driven firmly with a waft of the blade
Bilal Asif to Taylor, no run, down the track, defended on the move, half an appeal but nothing doing
Bilal Asif to Taylor, FOUR, finds the gap this time and Taylor pierces the cover ring with another sweetly timed drive. Excellent intent from this pair
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 wide
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, defended off the back foot
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, pushed onto the back foot, solid defence
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, solidly into line again
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, slower ball, deflected out to gully
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, short, attempted pull but not timed
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, forward and defended
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, hops across the crease to work a single into the covers
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, deep in the crease, angled bat, nothing doing
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, on the hip, flicked to backward square
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, not sure how that ended up in the covers, but Taylor's attempted leg-glance takes a comfortable leading edge through point
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, short, and easily pulled through midwicket. No pace whatsoever off the surface. Sounds familiar ...
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, fenced out to gully, a bit of extra life from a fuller length. That's the benefit of bowling from the cloud-line
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 2 runs, crunched out to midwicket rope
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, defended on the back foot
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, defended with a measured drive back to the bowler
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, sharp turn but short enough to watch onto the bat, defended to square leg
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, forward and blocked back to the bowler, a couple of paces to meet the pitch
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, twirled onto the toes, clipped to the bowler. Tidy over
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, half a step down the track and thwacked to the leg side, as if swatting the WASP itself
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, slower ball, Morgan seemed to pick it, but he couldn't time his ugly smear through cow corner. Through to the keeper
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, beaten more conventionally this time, extra pace
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 wide, down the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, better line, Morgan can't make capital
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, shorter, Morgan wafts into a pull, but can't connect once again
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 wide, another leg-side anomaly
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, yorker, well dug out ...
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, on the toes, Taylor was already walking into the stroke so an easy single to midwicket
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, tossed onto a good length
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 1 run, walloped down the ground, it hangs in the air for a time but drops short of long-on
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, short, Taylor attempts a helicopter pull through midwicket but can't make proper contact
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, down the track, a closed-faced drive to midwicket
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, short and an attempted pull, under-edged out to midwicket
Bilal Asif to Morgan, FOUR, too short, smashed through midwicket. That was emphatic
Bilal Asif to Morgan, no run, on the back foot, eased into the gully region
Bilal Asif to Morgan, 1 run, clipped to midwicket, good swift calling
Bilal Asif to Taylor, SIX, down the track, sumptuous footwork and that is a towering straight six! The first of the match and worth the wait.
Bilal Asif to Taylor, 1 run, on the hip, tapped through square leg
Bilal Asif to Morgan, 1 run, crunched into the covers, a promising over from England's perspective
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, defended from the crease
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 3 runs, into position early for the sweep, flicked fine, well placed
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, on the back foot, driven to cover
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, driven back to the bowler
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, outside off, cut firmly through the covers
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, forward and defended
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, down the track, turns into the pads
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, SIX, slap-a-doodle-do! Taylor brings up his fifty with a monstrous uppercut of a straight six, under the ball, full swing, fetch me another
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, down on one knee, urgently swept to square leg
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, worked into the gap
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, blocked
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, another productive over from England's perspective
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, outside off, attempted cut, through to the keeper with an ooh and an aah
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, punched into the covers
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, on the pads, flicked to square leg
Yasir Shah to Morgan, no run, blocked into the leg-side
Yasir Shah to Morgan, 1 run, driven down the ground
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, worked into the gap to keep the strike
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, defended
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, dropped! A towering slogged wipe into the leg-side, hung in the air for yonks but, actually, the fielder in the covers didn't actually get a finger on it. He probably should have done
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, OUT, a wicket this time! Full length, a firm drive, a hint of spin, a thin edge, an easy take. A fine innings comes to an end
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, no run, back into the crease, defended
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, down on one knee, swept through square leg
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, OUT, round the wicket, tip and run, it's a suicide single to midwicket and even without a direct hit, there's plenty time for the keeper to whip off the bails! Dreadful cock-up in the calling and Buttler's desperate tour takes another nosedive
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, clunked into the covers
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, a yelp of excitement as cover fields again
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, poked out to point, joining the dots
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, on the toes, a straight-faced drive to long-on
Yasir Shah to Ali, 1 run, on the pads, turning down the leg-side and helped on its way
Yasir Shah to Taylor, no run, defended back down the pitch
Shoaib Malik to Ali, no run, round the wicket, forward and defended
Shoaib Malik to Ali, 1 run, on the pads, flicked through midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, forward and defended
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, big stride, big appeal. And they are reviewing. Actually, no they aren't, they are out of time ...! I thought that pitched outside leg, personally: EDIT ... no it wasn't ...
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, flicked through midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Ali, 1 run, dead-batted to point, and a scampered single
Yasir Shah to Ali, no run, flighted, on leg stump, clipped to the fielder square
Yasir Shah to Ali, 2 runs, Moeen skips out and chips over the man at extra cover, just enough on it and it bounces safely
Yasir Shah to Ali, no run, goes down early and attempts to paddle fine, keeper and slip go chasing to the leg side... but the ball got stuck under the bat and didn't go anywhere
Yasir Shah to Ali, 1 run, fizzed through around off stump, opens the face and runs one behind point
Yasir Shah to Taylor, 1 run, runs down the pitch and drives one more to long-off
Yasir Shah to Ali, no run, blocked into the covers, there's a misfield but they'll not get a run off it
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, OUT, skips out and chips the ball to midwicket! Taylor is gone now, England getting back to basics with a collapse against spin... He was playing with the turn, didn't get to the pitch and it looped in front of Azhar, who threw himself forward low to his left and held on smartly
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, no run, angled in from round the wicket, played back to the bowler
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, 1 run, touch short, played from the crease, gets an inside edge into a gap on the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Ali, no run, pushed through on the stumps, Moeen languidly taps it away into the off side
Shoaib Malik to Ali, 1 run, floated up and worked back through mid-on for one
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, 1 run, flat trajectory, outside the line of off, Woakes punches it past extra cover to long-off
Yasir Shah to Woakes, no run, pushed through on off stump, punched back
Yasir Shah to Woakes, no run, gives it a bit more air, Woakes strokes towards one of the blokes in the covers
Yasir Shah to Woakes, 1 run, closes the face slightly, a leading edge pops back towards Yasir but runs away through mid-on for one
Yasir Shah to Ali, OUT, plucked out of thin air, Moeen is gone! Brilliant from Babar Azam, leaping to his left with Velcro (TM) fingers and holding a screamer one-handed! Moeen rocked back to pull a short delivery, hit it out of the screws but somehow it has brought Yasir his first wicket
Yasir Shah to Rashid, 1 run, tossed up, driven through the covers to the man in the deep
Yasir Shah to Woakes, FOUR, Woakes finishes the over with a boundary, full toss from Yasir and it's crunched through midwicket into a gap
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, 1 run, tossed up and flicked through backward square from the crease
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, 1 run, clipped off the pads through long-on coming forwards
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, no run, flatter, Rashid nudges it to square leg
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, 1 run, waits in the crease, on the pads and worked fine for one more
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, no run, on leg stump, pushed back to the bowler
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, no run, flatter, Woakes goes back in the crease and blocks
Wahab Riaz to Rashid, 1 run, pitched up in the channel outside off, Rashid steers a drive through backward point
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, short of a length, Woakes defends down in front of square
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, stays back and blocks around off stump
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 1 run, length delivery on the pads, Woakes closes the face and nudges one through midwicket
Wahab Riaz to Rashid, 1 run, fullish, outside off, opens the face and runs one more behind square on the off side
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, no run, angled on middle and leg stump from round the wicket, nudged off the pads
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, 1 run, drops back and flicks one through backward square
Shoaib Malik to Woakes, 1 run, tossed up, Woakes gets down on one knee and lap-sweeps one more to short fine leg
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, no run, defended into the off side coming forwards
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, no run, tossed up on the stumps, Rashid turns it to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Rashid, no run, flighted, tries to flick one to long-on, Malik moves across and cuts it off
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, back of a length, Woakes reaches away from his body and pokes into the off side
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, oof, hit in the bread basket trying to pull! Wahab banged the ball in, might have got a slight bottom edge, then took it in the gut
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, goes round the wicket, length in the channel, swings and misses
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, tighter line, defended into the off side
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, good length outside off, Woakes taps it towards backward point
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 4 leg byes, fired leg side-ish, hits the padding and Wahab appeals, Sarfraz too but the umpire isn't interested and the ball skedaddles away to fine leg for valuable extras
Mohammad Irfan to Rashid, 1 run, pitched up in the channel, Rashid steers another drive behind square
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 1 run, short of a length, Woakes runs it down to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Rashid, OUT, full on the stumps, Rashid brings out his helicopter shot... and plinks it straight to mid-on! More like Budgie the Little Helicopter, that, whipped wristily back down the ground, a la MS Dhoni but without quite the same effect
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, no run, stays over the wicket, defends a shortish ball on off stump
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 1 run, full and straight, clipped through backward square leg to get off the mark
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, no run, lovely bowling from Irfan, dupes Woakes with a cutter that narrowly fails to clip the top of off!
Wahab Riaz to Willey, no run, good length outside off, Willey lets it go
Wahab Riaz to Willey, no run, pitched up and punched into the covers half forward
Wahab Riaz to Willey, 1 run, speared in at the toes, a late-swinging yorker from Wahab and Willey only just manages to jam his bat down in time! Wahab was appealing for lbw but there was no pad involved, the ball squeezed between his legs and they pinched a run
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 1 run, round the wicket, slower ball, I think, Woakes hit the pad swinging to leg, missing the stumps with the angle
Wahab Riaz to Willey, no run, gets across to defend around the line of off
Wahab Riaz to Willey, no run, short ball, Willey takes a blow on the ribs! He's down! That was short, fast and nasty - he's going to need some treatment here
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 1 run, on the stumps, pushed back down the ground
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, no run, gets across to defend a length ball around off stump
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 1 wide, slung down the leg side, Willey flicks and misses, despite an appeal from Sarfraz
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, no run, speared in at the pads, doesn't get any bat on it again, missing leg
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 1 run, short, rolls his fingers over the ball, Willey is early on a pull and bottom-edges one to fine leg
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 1 run, back of a length outside off, Woakes opens the face and runs it to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 1 run, pitched full and straight, aims a drive down the ground and gets a thick inside edge through backward square
Yasir Shah to Willey, 1 run, tossed up on the legs, Willey chops it through midwicket
Yasir Shah to Woakes, no run, length ball, straightening on middle and off, Woakes defends solidly
Yasir Shah to Woakes, 1 run, pushed through, drops back and stabs one through cover point out towards the sweeper
Yasir Shah to Willey, no run, sliding on outside off, not much turn and it beats the outside edge
Yasir Shah to Willey, 1 run, clipped off the legs through square for one more
Yasir Shah to Woakes, no run, tossed up, Woakes defends and Yasir ends with solid figures of 1 for 38 from his 10
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 1 run, fired in on the stumps, Willey squeezes it out via and inside edge
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 2 runs, Woakes waits in the crease and steers wide of third man for a couple more
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, no run, follows the ball outside off and is beaten, not full enough to drive
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 2 runs, full on middle stump, Woakes drives off the inside half of the bat and gets it past mid-on
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 1 run, short outside off, cracked to deep point off the back foot
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 1 run, slips in the yorker, maybe a slower ball, Willey shuts the door on it and they steal another single
Wahab Riaz to Willey, 1 run, slightly short outside off, pushed square into a gap
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 2 runs, short outside off, Woakes defends it down behind square, the point fielder fails to collect and they come back for two - 200 up for England
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, short ball, Woakes flinches underneath it
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 1 run, punched into the covers, straight to the fiedler and Woakes was well out of the frame as the throw came in... but it missed
Wahab Riaz to Willey, 1 run, digs out another yorker, Willey calls Woakes through and Wahab kicks the ball into the stumps, nearly rolled his ankle in the process
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 2 runs, on the stumps, flicked through backward square, in the air but into a gap
Anwar Ali to Willey, 1 run, length ball on leg stump, glanced square
Anwar Ali to Woakes, no run, tight lines from Anwar, on the stumps and worked to mid-on
Anwar Ali to Woakes, 1 run, drops short, possibly a slower-ball bouncer, Woakes reaches up to help it through square leg
Anwar Ali to Willey, no run, sends down a cutter and Willey has a big ole yahoo, misses it by a distance
Anwar Ali to Willey, no run, length ball outside off, swatted into the covers - Anwar collecting dots like Pacman
Anwar Ali to Willey, no run, swings across the line and gets a bottom edge into the ground, back towards the bowler, who leaps to field
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, full and fast, Woakes squeezes down on it and Sarfraz takes an excellent low catch... He's asking the question but was it a bump ball? Yes, yes it was. Would have obliterated off stump if he hadn't got the toe of the bat on it
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, short ball this time, Woakes swings himself out of the way, blindly hoping to connect
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, low full toss from Wahab, wide of the stumps, might have been an outside edge before it bounced through to the keeper
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 2 runs, pitched up, Woakes digs it out towards long-on and they come charging back to two
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, rolls his fingers over the ball, Woakes can't get it through the off side
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 1 run, back of a length, smeared through the covers, an excellent bit of fielding keeps them to one
Mohammad Irfan to Woakes, 1 run, backs away and slices one through backward point
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, 2 runs, pitched up and Willey swings the arms, gets a couple through backward point
Mohammad Irfan to Willey, OUT, he swings, he misses... Irfan hits! Off stump rattled and England lose their ninth wicket after a steady Eddy 33-run stand. Third wicket for Irfan
Mohammad Irfan to Topley, no run, gets in line to defend his stumps
Mohammad Irfan to Topley, no run, another cutter from Irfan, bounces over the stumps! He's just too darn tall... Topley playing down the wrong line
Mohammad Irfan to Topley, no run, back of a length, Topley stays inside it and lets the ball fly through
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, no run, full toss from Wahab, swing and a miss from the batsman
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 2 runs, goes full again, this time Woakes manages to slap it away through point, cut off in the deep
Wahab Riaz to Woakes, 1 run, another full bunger from Wahab, driven to the sweeper in the covers for one
Wahab Riaz to Topley, OUT, Topley misses again, they run to the keeper... and Sarfraz's direct hit removes Woakes! Superbly done, underarming the ball straight back where it came from and leaving Woakes short of his ground by a frame. So England are dismissed for 216 with two balls left unbowled
MM Sharma to Miller, 1 run, back of a length and jags in, Miller is cramped for room a bit but secures a single through square leg to get off the mark
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, full outside off and a neat push square of the wicket wide of point
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, full on middle and off, defended back down the pitch
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, pushed across outside off, 81mph, left alone
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, on leg stump but he gets away with it as Azam flicks it off his pads and Rashid makes a diving stop at short fine-leg
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, back outside off, full length, defended towards mid-off
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, good line, full on off stump, 78mph, carefully defended with bat and pad together...a steady opening over
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 wide, starts down the leg side, a hint of swing, Azhar misses his flick
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, nicely bowled, adjusts his line to full outside off, draws Azhar forward and he plays a flat-foot drive and almost gets an edge
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, down the leg side again, but this time Azhar had moved quite away across his crease the umpire lets it go
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, tucked off the pads to square leg
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, fuller on middle and leg, nudged just to the right of mid-on
Topley to Babar Azam, 2 runs, full outside leg, not quite the right line, deflects off the pad fine of the keeper but the slow outfield ensures it pulls up well before the boundary...in fact, a small edge too
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, outside off, driven firmly to mid-off's left
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, back of a length outside off, left alone
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, driven square off a thickish outside edge towards point
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, gets across outside off and whips a full delivery into midwicket
Willey to Azhar Ali, FOUR, nice drive this time, gets well forward into a full ball and pierces the gap between cover and mid-off...enough power to overcome the outfield, too
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, drags the length back a touch, pushed to mid-off
Willey to Azhar Ali, 1 run, back of a length outside off, punched from the back foot to the left of mid-off so he keeps the strike
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, nearly draws an edge, angled across outside off, Azhar plays at it and the ball goes on to beat him
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, left alone this time
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, oh dear, Topley's had a bit of a shocker there! The ball was punched back to him, nothing was happening, but he went to throw it back to the keeper and the ball got stuck in his hand and he ended up winging it into space on the leg side to give away a run. A little embarrassing
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, clipped wide of mid-on
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, full outside off, left alone
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, good delivery, full at off stump, finds the outside edge but it dies in front of second slip who makes a sharp save
Willey to Babar Azam, 2 runs, width outside off and cut through the off side, slow outfield into play
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, worked off the pads through square leg
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, driven back to the bowler without much timing
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, almost a drag on as he goes for an expansive drive, the ball doesn't come on and a thick inside edge dribbles just wide of the stumps
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, defended off the stumps
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, back of a length, aims to flick it through the on side but just gets taken on the thigh pad
Topley to Babar Azam, FOUR, that's a strong drive, a stride forward and although he wasn't to the pitch he just strikes clean thorugh the line
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, not so full this time, dropped into the off side and his Azhar's has gone flying somehow...a collision between him and Topley as the bowler ran across to get to the ball
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, tucked into the leg side
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, flicked down to long leg
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, better delivery, full and straight, squirts off a thick outside edge into the point area
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, very full, on the popping crease, driven off the bottom of the bat towards mid-off...Azhar struggling a little
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full outside off, left alone
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, works a straight delivery behind square on the leg side with a flick of his wrists
Woakes to Azhar Ali, SIX, blimey! That's come out of nowhere. He takes a step down the pitch and then crunches a full delivery straight down the ground over long off
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, stays in his crease this time, works a full ball from outside off towards mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, short of a length outside off, defended into the covers
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, more strong wrist work, taking a delivery from quite wide outside off and placing to just wide of mid-on
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, angled down to third man
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, slower ball, full and wide outside off, can't get it through the off side
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, width again, this time he is able to cut it wide of third man although it's just a single
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, shorter delivery, Azhar plays it off the back foot, rides it down to third man again
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, full at off stump, defended square to point
Topley to Babar Azam, FOUR, that's a sweet straight drive, along the ground this time, very correct from Azam as he leans into a full delivery and sends it straight of mid-off
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short of a length, gets inside the line and tucks it down to long leg
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full at straight, flicked to square leg
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 wide, a bouncer, loops off the surface, Azam ducks and the umpire calls wide much to the chagrin of Woakes
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, sweetly time with a bottom-handed flick as he whips it off the stumps to mid-on
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, a punchy drive off the back foot which finds cover
Woakes to Babar Azam, 2 runs, finds the gap this time, another neat drive as he drives on the up through the covers
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, can't take advantage of some width as he cracks this one straight at cover
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, full at middle, 80mph, defended back to Topley
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 run, opens the face and runs this down to third man
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, slips out as a full toss but it doesn't cost him as it is flicked straight to short fine-leg
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, slower ball, full outside off, presses forward and opens the face to third man
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, leans back on the drive, finds point
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, down the pitch and gets beaten as Topley pulls his length back, the ball climbs over the top edge
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full outside off, pushed to the covers, and a scream of 'no'
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, shorter outside off, played from the back foot this time
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, shuffles across his stumps and flicks a length delivery from outside off to deep square
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, a bouncer outside off, Azhar sways out of the line, this time it's okay for the umpire
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, fuller again, slides off a thick outside edge to third man
Woakes to Babar Azam, OUT, breakthrough! And it's the short ball which works. Entices a hook from this time, he had to drag it from outside off, took mostly top edge and Rashid steadied himself under the catch at long leg
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, starts on leg stump, flicked into the deep on the on side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, on off stump, a little short, he has plenty of time to place it off the back foot through the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, touch fuller, hint of turn, played with an open face to point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, beats him as he tries to cut away a delivery that skidded on and only just missed off stump
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, chips this over mid-on, he came down the track but wasn't to the pitch. Still went through with his shot, dragged it a little, but had legs to get over the infield
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed to the covers
Woakes to Azhar Ali, no run, full outside off, pushed square to backwards point
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, driven firmly to cover...Root gets a blow on his knee
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, angled into the pads, flicked to long leg
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, skips across the crease, almost has his feet off the ground as he flicks this to the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, goes for the pull, takes the pad and loops towards Root at slip
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward, defends down by his feet, looked for a single but the ball was quickly closed down
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short outside off, he steps back and cuts through the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, this spins a decent amount, but quite slowly and Hafeez flicks to mid-on
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up much more, is actually a low full toss, driven to long-off
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, played down the ground again
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed carefully into the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, full at leg stump, swept strongly behind square
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, full outside off, driven with a closed face into the leg side wide of mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short of a length at off stump, Woakes has mixed things up quite effectively so far, worked into the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, this full delivery is drilled over the off side, confident shot from Hafeez who didn't bother with much footwork
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, straighter delivery, aims to work to the on side and Woakes gets across
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward and defends, slides off the face to point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed square into the off side again, point is quickly onto it to prevent the single
Rashid to Azhar Ali, no run, uses his feet, nicely bowled with a touch more air, pushes to the off side
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, short this time, spins away outside off, cut to deep cover
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, just over mid-on! Hafeez wanting to attack Rashid again, goes for the lofted option, the bat twisted in his hands a touch, didn't quite get the elevation he wanted but just enough to beat the man on the edge of the circle
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, SIX, this one has the distance! Down the pitch again, swings it very high into the air and it has the distance to land over the rope at long-on although not by much
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, dragged down outside off, flat-batted to deep cover
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, full toss which dips down the leg side, tickled fine of short fine-leg
Ali to Azhar Ali, no run, over the wicket, tossed up on the stumps, tucked to square leg
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, goes back in the crease and flicks the ball a little finer for one
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up on middle and off, comes forward and pushes back to the bowler, briefly in the air
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, flighted, outside off, driven through the covers
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, gets across his stumps and taps one more through mid-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, Hafeez scuttles out and clips to leg, sends it straight to midwicket
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, pushed through outside off, drops back and chops through point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, SIX, into the stands this time! Hafeez slaps Rashid upside his head again, walloping a full delivery over wide long-on... Picked the googly, I think
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, drags it down a little, pushed back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up outside off, driven through the covers
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, pushed through on middle and leg, Azhar clips through midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, floated up on the stumps, Hafeez gets down low to sweep but picks out the fielder
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, on the stumps, dabbed into a gap at midwicket and they hustle one
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, length ball, spinning in, clips the inside edge and runs square
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, flighted around off stump, blocked back to the bowler's left
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, down the leg side, just a little tickle of bat on it and the ball runs fine
Ali to Azhar Ali, 1 run, presses forward and pushes a driven through mid-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, there's a clatter of timber, Buttler makes a half-hearted appeal... The ball went into and out of his gloves on to the stumps but was Hafeez's back foot in? Yes, it was indeedy
Rashid to Azhar Ali, 1 run, tossed up and punched through the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, flighted outside off, tapped towards mid-off along the ground
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, OUT, calamity! Hafeez has run out his captain...! Steered the ball straight to backward point and then called Azhar through, but he was never in the picture, he turns and stops as if to remonstrate, swipes the air with his bat. To be fair, he didn't respond to the initial call and was then up the creek
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, gets forward and drives wide of the bowler for one
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, spinning away outside off, dabbed through backward point
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, on the stumps, whipped to leg and Safraz races through for one more
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, pushed into another gap for a busy single
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, beats the bat outside off, Hafeez attempting to cut off the back foot
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, Sarfraz is up and motoring, smoothly powering a sweep through backward square leg - 100 up for Pakistan
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, on the stumps, turned into the leg side but midwicket seizes on it
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushes the ball back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, spinning away outside off, dabbed square
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, turned into a gap
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 2 runs, pushed through outside off, Sarfraz drops back and plays a very late cut for a couple
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, tossed up on middle and leg, nudged into the off side
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, gives it some air outside off, driven into the covers - tighter over from Rashid
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, shout of "catch!" from Moeen as Hafeez chips into a gap on the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, superbly done from Sarfraz, gets lower than Flo Rida Ft. T-Pain and sweeps hard from outside off off stump through backward square leg
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, on the stumps, worked to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, driven, uppish and is that a drop? Well, hard to call it a chance but Woakes, I think, got fingertips to it diving forward at extra cover
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, punched back down the track
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up and swept hard, bounces out towards deep midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, length ball outside off, dabbed towards backward point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up and punched into the covers coming forwards
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up and punched into the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, nicely bowled, flighted on off stump and turning to beat Hafeez's forward prod
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, gets into line and dabs it away - another dot for Rashid
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, and that's a rare maiden for him, tossing up the googly to complete the over
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, nudged off the legs
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, goes down to try and sweep, misses the ball and takes it on the thigh - maybe a little slower from Moeen
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the stumps, turned to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward and drives to the man in the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, flighted, worked across the line, in front of midwicket and they pinch one
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, angled in with the arm, blocked back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the stumps, tucked towards midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up, goes for the slog-sweep and miscues it along the ground towards long-on
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, FOUR, tossed up, nice and juicy outside off, Sarfraz takes a big bit, getting his front foot out and clubbing past deep extra cover
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, tip and run, towards mid-on, the ball is underarmed at the stumps but missed and Sarfraz had made good ground
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed through slightly wide, Taylor makes a diving stop at backward point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, width to cut again but Taylor pounces on it in almost identical fashion
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, tossed up on the stumps and pushed towards mid-on
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, closes the face, gets a leading edge back towards the bowler
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, outside off, cut to backward point
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, gets down low and sweeps one more through backward square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, can't get this one away
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up on middle and off, pushed back to the bowler - tight few overs from England, nine runs off the last four
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 wide, starts with a wide down the leg side
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, goes across and nudges a length ball to leg
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the hips, tucked away through backward square
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, Willey continues to bowl a leg-stump line, clipped away for one more
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the legs, nudged square to the man in the deep
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, pushed across the batsman, room to free the arms and slap one behind point
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, a change of pace deceives Hafeez, he tries to pull and it bops him in the gut
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, gets down and sweeps one more through backward square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed back to the bowler
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up on the stumps, can't get the ball past midwicket
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up outside off, driven firmly but straight to the man set back in the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, popped back towards the bowler again
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, angled in and turned around the corner for a single to finish the over
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, length ball around the line of off, pushed in front of square
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 leg bye, low full toss from Willey, the cat-like Sarfraz is low in the crease and into the sweep early, picks out backward square but runs anyway, a direct hit would have been close... Think there was a vain lbw appeal, too, but must have been glove/bat on it first
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, length ball, dabbed into the covers
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, OUT, top-edged out towards deep square leg... and taken! Hafeez's slow wind down comes to its conclusion with a tame flick into the deep, miscued it high to the fielder
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed, 1 run, back of a length, tucked away through square
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, goes across his stumps and flicks his first ball away for a run
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, punched back past the bowler to long-on
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, no run, worked into the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed, OUT, comes charging down the pitch, slogs to leg - and picks out the fielder in the deep! Sarfraz has a brain fart and hands his wicket to Moeen! He was going so well but tried to force it, just after losing his partner
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through flat on off stump, drops back and cut
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, flighted, spinning in to hit the inside edge as Malik props forward
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, length ball, tapped square from the crease
Willey to Mohammad Rizwan, 1 run, pitched up outside off and pushed through the covers into the deep
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, back of a length on leg stump, misses with a flick
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed into the covers coming forwards
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, Willey joining the dots here, as Malik punches a fullish ball to extra cover
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, short ball on the stumps, pulled flat through square leg
Willey to Mohammad Rizwan, no run, full around off stump, slower delivery and Rizwan pats it to cover
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, pushed to the right of the bowler for one
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan, OUT, another run-out, Rizwan wandering down the pitch! Either he didn't call or Malik didn't hear it because he wasn't moving, Rizwan realised far too late and Roy was able to scoop the ball up at midwicket, underarm to Buttler, who completed the dismissal
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, spinning down the leg side, gets a leading edge
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, turned into the leg side
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, angled in with the arm, pushed back
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, Moeen darts the ball on the stumps, Iftikhar blocks - just one off the over, to go with the run-out
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, stays in the crease and blocks
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, short of a length, drops back and nudged through square
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, dabbed into a gap, Iftikhar is off the mark
Willey to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, slanted across the right-hander from over the wicket, glided to third man
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, goes full around the line of off, driven with a statesmanlike air through mid-off
Willey to Shoaib Malik, no run, slower ball from Willey, hits the toe of the bat as he props forward
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, 1 run, on the stumps, flicked into the leg side
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through on off stump, blocked back to the bowler
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, length ball on off, closes the face and turns it to midwicket
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, slower, floated up outside off, leans out and defends
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, spinning in off a length, goes back and whips it away to deep midwicket for one
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, bit of dip, gripping to spin in on off, Iftikhar shows it a straight bat
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, full and straight, driven to mid-n
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, there's an appeal for lbw by Woakes as this nips back, an off-cutter, and is deflected to third man. Pad first? Hard to tell. Seems to be flap of the front pad. No review used. Going over in any event
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed, no run, clipped to midwicket
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed, OUT, and another! Falling in a heap here. Another short-ball wicket for Woakes as Iftikhar goes to pull, gets elevation but not the distance and picks out deep square-leg.
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, tight to off stump, dabbed through backward point
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, steps back to leg and drives out to deep cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, appeal for lbw, full around leg stump, Anwar probs forward, probably not straightening enough...might have pitched outside leg, too
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, wide outside off, left alone
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 2 runs, pushed square into the off side and a rare fumble in the field from England by Woakes coming across from point
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, another appeal for lbw and this time England use their review. A googly from Rashid, nice spin to beat the inside edge. Has it done too much? Unless there's an edge. Well, hitting in line with off stump is umpire's call and it's also going over
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, full and pushed down the ground
Woakes to Anwar Ali, no run, full at the stumps, played back to Woakes in his followthrough
Woakes to Anwar Ali, no run, short ball, over off stump, Anwar ducks
Woakes to Anwar Ali, no run, full outside off, might have been another cutter, patted to the off side
Woakes to Anwar Ali, 1 run, flicked into the leg side
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, short delivery dug in, rises fairly gently off the surface, worked around the corner behind square
Woakes to Anwar Ali, 1 run, push-and-run towards mid-on, it was a bit of a scamper but safe enough
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, driven into the covers
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, driven away square through point, but Moeen is quickly around at deep cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, flicks a full delivery to midwicket
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, was that a missed stumping?? Yes, it was. Buttler can't glove it cleanly as Anwar plays over the top of a full delivery. Won't help Buttler's confidence. Anwar was out of his crease for quite some time.
Rashid to Anwar Ali, no run, beaten by one which spins, nice bowling
Rashid to Anwar Ali, 1 run, driven down the ground
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, full outside off, played to backward point
Topley to Anwar Ali, no run, shorter delivery, again he can't beat backward point as he opens the face
Topley to Anwar Ali, OUT, this has gone miles in the air and is safely taken! Another bit of pretty brainless cricket from Pakistan as Anwar tries to launch this back towards Dubai, it's a back-of-a-length ball and it gets way underneath it. Moeen does well to settle under a steepler
Topley to Shoaib Malik, no run, full at the stumps, tries to work to the on side but gets it towards mid-off instead
Topley to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, that's a pretty ugly heave into the leg side, swinging across the line of a full delivery
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, full and straight, blocked to the off side
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, angled down to third man
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, a length delivery, runs it off the edge to third man
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, and another down to third man...it's about all Pakistan can do for the next five or six overs
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, short outside off, leaves it alone
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, fuller, comes forward and pushes to backward point, Roy very quickly in
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, a short-of-a-length cutter which is prodded into the off side
Topley to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, angled down to third man
Topley to Wahab Riaz, OUT, another run out! Waqar not impressed in the dressing room. It was just nudged into midwicket, Malik came charging up the pitch, it's a swift pick-up by Jordan and a direct hit on the turn. Excellent work, but what has happened to Pakistan?
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, flicked off the pads to long leg
Topley to Zafar Gohar, no run, nearly run-out No. 4! He digs out a yorker towards mid-on, Wahab charges out of his crease and has to dive to get back in
Topley to Zafar Gohar, no run, slower ball outside off which he nearly spoons to cover
Topley to Zafar Gohar, no run, tapped to the off side
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, low full toss which is squirted down to third man
Willey to Zafar Gohar, no run, worked from offstump to midwicket
Willey to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, full outside off, heaved down the ground to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, driven through the off side
Willey to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, low full toss, aiming for the yorker, can only get swung to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, full on the pads, clipped to deep midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, excellent yorker, dug out back to the bowler
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, gets beaten by another slower one outside off as he tries to cut
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, driven square through the off side
Topley to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, dropped into the off side, a tight single...could have been close with a direct hit. Probably out with a hit!
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 2 runs, a controlled edge down to third man, he comes back for a dicey second and has to dive to make his crease...the ball bounce awkwardly at Buttler who couldn't gather it. Might have had time to break the stumps
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, driven to deep cover
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, cut firmly out to deep point
Willey to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, swings a low full toss in the air over square leg, deep midwicket gets around, they wanted a second for a moment but settled at one
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, full outside off, he drives over the top of it
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, deflected down to third man
Willey to Zafar Gohar, SIX, a boundary! And it's the full lot. Terrific shot on debut, gets good leverage on a full ball, stays in the crease, swings through the line over long-on
Willey to Zafar Gohar, no run, misses out on a low full toss this time, clipped to midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, dabbed to backward point
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, another cutter, beats him on the inside edge as he aims to the leg side...actually, a back-of-the-hand slower ball
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, on the pads, flicked to deep midwicket
Topley to Zafar Gohar, 2 runs, good bit of invention now from Gohar, steps across his crease and scoops a full toss behind square...he doesn't lack for confidence
Topley to Zafar Gohar, 1 run, slices this in the air, down the ground, but it lands short of long off
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, another slower one outside off, he misses his dab
Woakes to Zafar Gohar, 2 runs, lovely strike and, I think, superb fielding...lofted straight down the ground over mid-off, but it doesn't skip across the outfield and gets flicked back
Woakes to Zafar Gohar, no run, swing and a miss to a full ball outside off
Woakes to Zafar Gohar, OUT, gone this time, swinging to leg against a back-of-a-length delivery and gets a top edge through to Buttler. Been a short-ball day for Woakes
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, no run, full outside off, driven to cover
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, no run, yorker, dug out to the off side
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, no run, full and straight, manages to keep it out with a nudge to mid-on
Topley to Wahab Riaz, no run, full and straight, aims to swing down the ground, slices as the bat turns and lobs towards mid-off but he declines the single
Topley to Wahab Riaz, SIX, he's connected this time! Almost a slog-sweep, goes down on one knee and picks it from outside off with a mighty swing over deep midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, dropped! A blemish from England. He heaves this into the leg side, picks out deep square where Root shells one that he would normally swallow
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, that came out wrong, a loopy full toss slower ball which Irfan lets through to the keeper then questions if it should have been a no-ball. Waist height to Irfan is a beaming to other players
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, full outside off, jabbed to point...crowd cheering the blocks from Irfan
Topley to Mohammad Irfan, no run, a straight, low full toss which is carefully pushed to cover so he survives the over
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, a yorker which is driven firmly to cover who is on the edge of the circle
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, top edge, but falls into space! And in the end it's a dot ball. Back of a length, heaves to the leg side, takes a top edge and doesn't carry to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, cracked straight down the ground this time and the run is declined again
Willey to Wahab Riaz, SIX, this time he gets it! Short of a length, Wahab keeps swinging hard and he muscles it over deep midwicket to bring up Pakistan's 200
Willey to Wahab Riaz, no run, full on the pads, deflects into the leg side, straight back to the bowler so can't get the single
Willey to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, works a low full toss into the vacant midwicket area and trots the single
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, SIX, another fantastic strike! Not the best delivery from Woakes, a driveable length outside off, and it gets absolutely hammered, flat over long-off
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, he's given lbw but reviews straight away. Hit it? Yes, massive inside edge into the back pad so this will be overturned
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, no run, he's given lbw again! And he reviews again. Wasn't an instant review this time. This one might be missing leg. Hit the back foot full, but very leg-side. Missing leg stump. He survives again. What scenes
Woakes to Wahab Riaz, 1 run, now he tries to scoop, gets across outside off and flicks it behind square on the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan, OUT, cleaned up! Full, straight, Irfan swung and Woakes hit off stump...he finishes with four wickets, so eight in his last two innings
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, FOUR, full and a touch wide and Roy gets out to lash it through the covers, positive intent from the off
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, draws his length back a touch, this zips through as Roy plays no stroke
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 2 runs, gets forward, check-drives this time, into a gap in the covers and gets a couple more
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 1 run, pushes from the crease, inside-edged through backward square
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, slightly back of a length, in the channel and Hales lets it go
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, bit of width, Hales toe-ends a cut in the air down towards third man, could have gone awry but picks up a single to get off the mark
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, starts slightly short, tapped into the covers
Anwar Ali to Hales, FOUR, slides on to the pads, Hales clips it past the diving short fine leg and gets a boundary to his name
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, defends coming forwards around off stump
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, length ball, Hales shows it a straight bat
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, angled in and worked off the body short into the leg side
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, good length on off stump, Hales shows it a straight bat in defence once again
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, slower ball from Irfan, poked off the hips towards square
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, OUT, extra lift from a length and Roy spoons it to cover! The giant picks up his first victim, he punches the air in delight... Roy was pushing out in front of him, closing the face slightly and a thick leading edge flew towards the edge of the ring
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, bowling round the wicket, pitched up and defended coming forwards
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, length ball slightly wide of the stumps, left alone
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, pushed into the covers coming across
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, short outside off, 86mph and steered away with a horizontal bat down to third man
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, slightly short of a length and defended into the off side
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, pitched up and punched towards mid-on, Root takes on the fielder and although he has to detour around Anwar he gets in okay
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, goes back and runs one to third man
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, pitched up, Root skips out and opens the face, steers it past backward point
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, full and straight, clipped off the toes through square leg
Anwar Ali to Root, FOUR, dropped short by Anwar and Root thwocks a pull away to the square-leg boundary with control to spare
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, leading edge, back to the bowler, he collapses like a felled oak... and drops it! He actually did well to fall right into its path, stuck out a big left paw and then grassed it, off the wrist
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, back and across and runs the ball to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, jumps back and lets this one go
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, slammed in short, a snorter at 88mph and Root is fending blindly in front of his face, loops off the glove behind square - no catcher in. Actually, his bottom hand was off the bat when it hit the glove
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, short of a length, steered towards backward point
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, another fiery bumper from Irfan, the batsman collapses underneath
Zafar Gohar to Root, no run, pushed through outside off, goes back and sends a cut towards point
Zafar Gohar to Root, 1 run, pitched up and punched into a gap in the covers coming forwards
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 1 run, angled in with the arm from round the wicket, clipped off the legs behind square
Zafar Gohar to Root, 2 runs, drops a little short, Root pulls in the air over midwicket, shouts of "catch!" but it was well in front of the man in the deep and they get back for two
Zafar Gohar to Root, OUT, Root slogs a full toss straight to deep square leg! Wicket in his first over for Gohar, he'll bowl better balls for less reward in his international career, for sure, but they don't add descriptions in the scorebook. Root just shovelled it straight to Iftikhar a few yards in, took a good catch above his head
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 run, flat on the stumps, clipped past the dive of midwicket for a single
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, gets across and defends a length ball
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 wide, short and down the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, oof, Morgan is hit on the shoulder trying to pull a bouncer, he looks in a bit of discomfort initially but seems okay... Though the shot early, deflected off the upper arm into the helmet
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, goes round the wicket, full on the legs, Morgan gets a scrape of bat on it
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, bangs in the short ball, at the batsman, who ducks sharpish
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, ooh, that's a beauty, a cutter from Irfan that beats the bat by a distance, bobbles low through to the keeper
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, nips one past the outside edge again! Gets some extravagant movement by rolling his fingers over it, superb stuff
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, over the wicket, pushed back down the track
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, tossed up and driven hard, in the air, straight back at the bowler... who doesn't lay a hand on it, though he does take a blow on the arm, the ball deflecting away through mid-on. A tough, tough chance, Gohar couldn't react in time
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 run, tossed up and worked through the leg side for a single
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 1 run, sliding on with the arm, Hales flicks it behind square on the leg side
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, leans into a forward defensive
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, short outside off, Hales reaches for a cut and was perilously close to nicking off
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, unplayable! Short and rising towards the shoulder, moved late too, just past the gloves
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, drops back and runs a single to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, shortish, lets this one through
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, bangs it in short and Morgan flinches out of the way
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, good length, 86mph around off stump, defended into the covers - excellent over from Irfan
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 1 run, pushed into a gap for one
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, flighted outside off, leans out and defends
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 run, angled in, played with the spin wide of mid-on
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run, length outside off, Hales chops it into the covers
Zafar Gohar to Hales, SIX, plants the front foot and plants him into the stands! The slog-sweep from Hales, utilising his long reach, absolutely hammered over the rope
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run, quicker ball from Gohar, nearly catches Hales unawares, jams the bat down in time
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, presses forward and defends solidly around off
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, FOUR, drops short and Morgan dismissively pulls it flat through backward square for four, looked comfortable with that
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, length outside off, comes forward and plays through the covers
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, slightly short, up towards 90mph, Hales reaches outside off and bottom-edges through to the keeper on the bounce
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, slower ball from Wahab, a cutter that Hales can only push back down the track
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, targeting the stumps, 87mph and played late, chopped into the ground towards backward point
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, tossed up, pushed back to the bowler
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, makes room to try and cut, gets an inside edge towards midwicket
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, pushed through flat on off stump, punched into the covers
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, good length, chopped towards cover from the crease
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, pushed through flat outside off, drops back and sends the ball to point - another dot
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, gets on to the front foot and drives, gets it past mid-off and they trot a single. Decent start from Iftikhar, though
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, pushed into the leg side, they steal a single... but the throw to the non-striker's end is a direct hit, with Morgan having to swerve round the bowler. It looked close but he was comfortably home in the end
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, slightly short, outside off, Hales reaches out and squirts one to third man
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, good length around the line of off, Morgan shows it a straight bat
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, slower ball from Wahab, just 66mph and Morgan is through the shot early, plays it on the full and in the air but lands short of mid-off
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, FOUR, short and heading down the leg side, Morgan helps it on its way down to fine leg with a swat of the bat
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, shortish, 87mph outside off, runs one more to third man
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, goes back and across and pushes into a gap
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 leg bye, stays round the wicket, tossed up on the pads, deflects behind square
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, angled in flat on the stumps, Morgan defends back down the track
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, slightly short, punched down the ground to long-off
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, FOUR, darted on the stumps and Hales crunches a sweep into the gap between deep midwicket and fine leg, that's four
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, tossed up a little more, dabbed towards square leg
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, Morgan gets across to defend a 88mph delivery without fuss
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, good length, moves into line and defends again
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, slower ball, waits for it and clips one to deep square leg
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, short at the body, 88mph and jabbed away square on the leg side
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, full and wide of the off stump, Hales dabs it down to third man
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, length around the line of off, Morgan bows his head over it in defence
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, floated up and clipped through midwicket to the man in the deep
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, pushed through outside off, turning away fractionally as Morgan slaps it through backward point
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, over the wicket, length ball, played with the turn to square leg
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, flighted, flicked off the toes behind square
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, oh, well bowled, beats everything! Morgan tried to drive through the off side, the ball pitched on middle and off, spun past the bat, past the timber and into the gloves
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, skidding on this time, clips the inside edge and runs behind square on the leg side
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, full outside off, guides this away behind point
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, straight delivery, just back of a length, defended to midwicket
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 wide, a bouncer over leg stump, Hales ducks, and it's too leg side (or short) for the umpire
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, driven into the ground and it bounces to backward point
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, tucks this one off his hip into square leg
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, short outside off, another slower ball, not much pace to work with and it plops (I'm sure that's a term in the MCC coaching manual) through the off side
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, trying to guide this down to third man, angled across him, and the ball beats the top edge
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, slides in from round the wicket, cut into the off side
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, forward with bat and pad together
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, FOUR, brings out the reverse sweep, or club, as though it is an everyday shot - which for him it is - and swats it away from wide outside off through third man
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, fuller, driven to cover
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, edged! But doesn't carry to slip. Nice turn as Morgan comes forward, but it dies off the outside edge
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, a mighty appeal for a catch down the leg side! Malik and Sarfraz are convinced Hales has touched this. Umpire Raza says not out and they review. Clipped the thigh pad? Looks a good decision. And, yep, it stays onfield
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, FOUR, and he's met by a powerful reverse sweep from Morgan, a slightly fuller delivery than the one he struck last time, gets right over the top and it whistles along the ground
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, flicked from outside off to midwicket
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, appeal for lbw but that's struck him well outside the line, Morgan trying to flick it to the leg side
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, another huge shout! This has more going for it. Morgan back in his crease, sharp spin to take the pad but may have been going down leg. The review is gone, remember
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 wide, more very sharp spin, this one goes down the leg side and is called wide
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, grip and spin, Morgan takes his bottom hand off the bat...worth a short leg? Pakistan need wickets
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, full outside off, he thrusts his bat in front of the pad this time as he blocks...interesting over
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 2 leg byes, they are screaming for everything at the moment, Hales taken on the pad from round the wicket as he plays back, it gripped again, and deflects through fine leg...going down
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, plays back again, flicked through midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, full on middle and leg, tapped to the on side
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, defended to cover
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, full at off stump, small stride forward, block (leg slip has become slip for Morgan)
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 wide, shoves this one down the leg side, no contact with anything
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, full at the stumps, defended square into the off side
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run, full and straight, pushed to the covers
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 2 runs, swept off the stumps and Irfan dives (or collapses) over it at short fine-leg
Zafar Gohar to Hales, OUT, done him! It was on the cards. Lovely bowling. Floated up full, Hales leans forward and prods in front of his pads, the outside edge carries low to slip
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, full at off stump, driven to cover
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, pushed up very full, blocked back down the pitch...plenty of noise in the field and the stands
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 2 byes, a beauty! Was that an edge? It's gone to third man. Big spin and turn. Defeats Taylor's edge as he prods forward, the keeper and slip
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, round the wicket, full at off stump, defended
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, touch shorter, Morgan rocks back and drives through the covers
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, round the wicket, swept to deep square leg
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 2 runs, gets this through the infield, a hint of width outside off, Morgan cuts through point but there's a boot on it near the boundary
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, OUT, and another! Lovely delivery, but Morgan has missed it by a long way. Playing back, it pitched on middle, turned sharply and struck off stump. Morgan comprehensively defeated
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, no run, plays back, deflects off the pad wide of leg slip
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, forward and defended
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, FOUR, another edge! Taylor also going back, more sharp spin - it goes square - takes the edge but Taylor's hands are soft it beats slip having not carried
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, you can feel the pressure, now he tries to sweep and doesn't make contact
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, FOUR, makes use of a low full toss outside leg stump, gets over the top and sweeps it wide of short fine-leg...Malik tries to get there, but slips on the boundary edge. Looks in a bit of pain
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 1 run, touch short, driven out to the cover sweeper
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, a play and a miss from Buttler, it was short and he went back to cut but there was extra bounce to beat the top edge
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, round the wicket, full outside off, driven down the ground
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, no run, missed stumping, Buttler came down the pitch, yorked himself, played over the top of the delivery, Sarfraz couldn't make the take. Buttler was a long way down
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, goes back and works a straight delivery with the spin to the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 wide, short, spins down the leg side, a rare poor delivery
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, sweeps this very hard off the stumps, sweetly connected, but almost straight to deep square
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 2 runs, full and a touch wide, Buttler comes forward and drives wide of the cover sweeper
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, gets over the ball and drives to long on
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, FOUR, well, that takes some guts, reverse sweeps and places it very well wide of backward point
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, terrific response from Gohar, floated up at off stump, spins past Buttler's edge as he lunges forward
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, that's even better! Unplayable. Pitched around middle and leg, rips past the outside edge and off stump. Jeepers.
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, FOUR, this is fantastic cricket, Buttler brings out the reverse sweep again, not quite as clean as the previous one but gets it finer and beats short third man
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 2 runs, adjusts his line, drifts full onto leg stump, clipped through midwicket and placed well enough for a second
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, drags this a little short, driven to deep cover
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, round the wicket, full outside off, eased down the ground to long on
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, uses his feet then whips to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, down the pitch again, flicks this through the vacant short fine-leg area...the running will be quick with this pair
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, back into the crease again, plays with the spin behind square on the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, down the pitch, not quite to the ball, has to lunge at it as he defends
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, gets down and plays a neat paddle-sweep from outside leg
Azhar Ali to Taylor, 2 runs, dragged down short outside off, Taylor pulls hard through midwicket
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, short and wide, a fairly horrid ball, and a fairly horrid shot as Taylor swipes and misses
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, full at the stumps, driven back to the bowler
Azhar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, whipped from full outside off with the bottom hand towards mid-on
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 wide, pushed way down the leg side
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, think that was the googly, not sure Buttler picked it, went for the reverse sweep and gets a bottom edge to short third man
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, beats him again, a quick ball outside off which also turns, defeats Taylor's cut and he's angry with himself
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, staying round the wicket, opens the face and places to deep point
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, tries to work this into space on the leg side but finds midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 2 runs, a bottom-handed flick through midwicket, the ball was full outside off, good placement wide of the deep sweeper
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, SIX, that's a big blow! Enough of the tippy-tappy for Taylor, he comes down the pitch then goes with the spin high over deep midwicket with a pick-up shot
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 2 runs, now he works a flatter ball off the pads wide of leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, full, blocked
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, very full, dug out through the covers to the sweeper
Azhar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, ooh, that's a big full toss, but only costs a single as Taylor swats to deep midwicket
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, pitches this one, full and straight, flicked through midwicket to bring up a very brisk 50-runs stand
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, sharp spin! Rips away from the outside edge, but think Taylor pulled his bat inside the line this time
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, shorter, cut to backward point
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, short and wide, but Taylor cuts straight to cover
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, no run, full at middle and off, forward and defended to cover
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, no run, defended to the bowler
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, back of a length on off stump, neatly driven out to deep cover
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, on his toes, pinged to mid-off
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, tries to force this through the off side but he's cramped for room
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, full at the stumps, Taylor shuffling across the crease and defends
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, no run, round the wicket, a slower short ball, defeats Buttler as he goes for a square swat
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, nearly finds third man! Short of a length outside off, Buttler cuts and slices it just in front of the fielder...one bounce
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, short outside off, Taylor gets over the top and plays to deep point
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, opens the face and places this calmly through point to the sweeper
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, short, angled into the body, Taylor rolls his wrists on the pull down to long leg
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, no run, full at off stump, 76mph, defended to cover
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, tries to force through the off side, gets a thick inside edge which isn't a million miles from the stumps
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, short ball, 83mph, Taylor responds with a rasping pull which skims, one bounce, to fine leg
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, full outside off, 89mph, driven to the cover sweeper
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, comes forward, nearly punches this in the air to cover but just stops himself from going too hard
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, back of a length, smartly dropped into the off side and they steal a single that probably shouldn't have been on offer
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, short, on leg stump, pulled to deep square
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, full at the stumps, driven firmly at cover
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, juicy full toss which is swung through the leg side but only a single to deep midwicket
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, appeal for lbw, Taylor flicking across the line of a full ball, heading leg side and may have hit it as well
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, another shout for lbw, Taylor on the sweep, pitched outside leg by looks of it
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, this one spins, defends square to the off side
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, goes back, takes the pad to the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, short of a length outside off, drops back and dabs to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, drops short again, at the body, Taylor swivels quickly to pull
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, fullish, mid-80s mph in the channel, Buttler presses out and steers through cover
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, FOUR, shouts of "catch!" as Taylor mistimes an aerial drive, his bottom hand coming off the bat... but it clears mid-ff and bounces away to the rope, brings the requirement under 50 now
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, FOUR, short and pulled hard - four more! Wahab dived at deep backward square but could only help the ball on to the boundary
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, length delivery, Taylor comes forward to block
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, tossed up, Buttler get out and punches through a gap
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 1 run, angled in and turned away through the leg side
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, drops back, waits for the ball to turn away from him, stabs through point
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, tossed up and patted away into the off side
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, FOUR, serves up a full toss and Taylor bunts it low past mid-on, it has the legs to outrun long-off for another boundary
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, looped up on off stump, leans into a forward defensive
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, pushed through and steered square off the back foot
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, SIX, full toss, Taylor gives it the big 'un and charges out to slap it through mid-off... in fact, he lands it right on the rope to bring up his fifty with a six!
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, round the wicket, tossed up on the stumps, dabbed into the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, pushed across the right-hander, runs it to backward point
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, flighted, on leg stump, goes down low to sweep behind square
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, on leg stump, tapped into a gap at square leg
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, slightly short, Buttler chops hard into the the covers but a diving stop prevents any runs
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, pushed back down the track
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, drops back and gets his cut through the infield this time
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, drops back on off stump but doesn't quite connect properly
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 1 run, drifting towards leg stump, gets down low to sweep, towards deep backward square... who then underarms a throw towards a team-mate who wasn't looking and Taylor briefly thinks about coming back for two
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 2 runs, on off stump, reverse swept through backward point for a couple more
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, FOUR, Taylor sweeps, top-edges towards deep square leg... who misses it completely! Gohar is signalling he couldn't see it in the lights as he ran in, the ball landed near his foot and bounced away for four
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, outside leg and Taylor gets some glove on a sweep to loop it up and over leg slip this time
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, tossed up on the stumps and swept fine for one more
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, Taylor skips out and nurdles into the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 2 runs, short and glanced off the hips from back in the crease - they scurry two more and that's the 100 stand between these two, looking like a match-winner
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, on the stumps, flicked leg side for one more
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, 1 run, round the wicket, nudged through square leg
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, tossed up and blocked back on the leg side
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, 1 run, flat offbreak down leg, flicked away to deep backward square
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, no run, turned to leg from the crease
38.5
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, no run, leg-stump line, hits the pads and rolls away
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, no run, flighted, Buttler waits on it and taps back down the track, no longer in any hurry
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, length on the stumps and flicked behind square
Anwar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, drops short, sits up nicely to be pulled through midwicket for one
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, shortish, over the top of off, Taylor closes the face and nudges square to the leg side
Anwar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, back of a length outside off, Buttler dabs it down to third man - 200 up for England, they're getting there without breaking sweat now
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, shortish, 78mph outside off, Taylor glides another single to third man
Anwar Ali to Buttler, no run, gets across and pushes gently into the off side
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, length outside leg stump, tapped away
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, 2 runs, goes down on one knee very early, waits for the ball to come on and flicks a paddle shot over his shoulder for a couple
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, over the wicket, pushed through and blocked
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, flat on the stumps, defended again
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, 1 run, shuffles forward, clips back to the bowler's right... a misfield gives Taylor one more
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, SIX, there it is, crashed over deep midwicket for the winning hit! Buttler saunters out and clubs the ball well beyond the rope to finish unbeaten on 49, as England win by six wickets to go 2-1 up in the series
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, 132 ks to start with, gentle outswing outside off, Rohit puts one front forward and skews a drive to point
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, a slightly shorter length, but full nonetheless. Outside off and swinging away and Rohit wants nothing to do with it
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, still swinging for Steyn. Full and wide outside off, Rohit shoulders arms once again
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, this one is closer to off, probably the fifth-stump line and Rohit comes forward to block to point
Steyn to RG Sharma, FOUR, 135.7 ks, full and wide and belted away through the off side for four. Exquisite timing, typical Rohit. He throws his hands at the ball to find the gap through point
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, goes wider with a hint of outswing. Left alone
Rabada to Dhawan, no run, good start. Fuller length aimed at the top of off. Solidly blocked off the back foot
Rabada to Dhawan, 1 run, 140.8 ks, good length just outside off now, Dhawan hangs back and punches the ball to wide mid-off for a quick single
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, 141.6 ks, good pace though. Good length outside off, climbing a tad on Rohit who leaves watchfully
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, overpitched now and Rohit creams a drive to cover. Wow, that sounded good but did not find the gap
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, nice stuff this. Back of a length just outside off, Rohit gets a good front stride to defend with intent
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, hustles Rohit for pace now. Hit a hard length outside off, Rohit thinks he can pull but the ball hits the bat before Rohit can play his pull. An awkward pull goes to cover
Steyn to Dhawan, no run, short and wide, flayed away off the back foot but straight to cover
Steyn to Dhawan, 1 run, well done, excellent cricket all-round. Slightly full by Steyn on middle and leg, Dhawan leans on a drive to mid-off. Faf runs across and puts in a diving stop
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, that may have come in a tad. Rohit defends watchfully to mid-on
Steyn to RG Sharma, FOUR, he finds the gap this time. Great timing again. Slightly full but wide and Rohit finds the gap through cover. Races away
Steyn to RG Sharma, 1 bye, better comeback. may have come in again. It is wider outside off though and Rohit leaves, AB dives low to his left ,but fumbles allowing the single
Steyn to Dhawan, no run, strays on Dhawan's pads this time who flicks to square leg
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, 141.8 ks, overpitched on middle and leg, similar to the length of Rohit's dismissal last game but this time he turns to ball to square leg
Rabada to RG Sharma, FOUR, again he just times the ball to the boundary. Not a great ball - full on middle and leg, Rohit just nudges the flick in the gap through midwicket. Beats the fielder for four.
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, another excellent looking shot. Cuts to point though
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, much fuller, bowls it closer to off also and Rohit blocks off the front foot
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, good length outside off, no swing at all. Left alone by Rohit.
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, 142.5 kph, fuller on off, Rohit is watching the ball excellently here. He pushes the ball to mid-on off the front foot
Morkel to Dhawan, 1 run, picks the length early here does Dhawan, not that short but Dhawan pulls to square leg where there is a misfield. Allowing the one.
Morkel to RG Sharma, 1 run, nicely bowled, from that height he delivers it on a fuller length outside off, not much movement and Rohit steers to third man
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, 145 kph, hangs on the back foot again does Dhawan. Morkel pushes it slightly fuller than a good length and Dhawan drives to mid-off
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, these are pretty good lengths from Morkel. Top of middle length and Dhawan repeats the push to mid-off from the back foot
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, much much better. Discernibly full from Morkel and Dhawan meets it with a solid drive to mid-off
Morkel to Dhawan, 1 run, 143.2 kph, well done by Dhawan. Steals the strike off Rohit this time. Full on off and Dhawan pushes the ball to Faf at mid-off with soft hands and sets off for a quick single. Makes it easily
Rabada to Dhawan, no run, dug in outside off, doesn't get up high enough but Dhawan stays in his line and watches it go by to the keeper
Rabada to Dhawan, no run, 144 ks, not that full but Dhawan drives with good timing to cover
Rabada to Dhawan, FOUR, gets the gap this time and even with an ill-timed drive, it races off for four. Quality stroke. Full but on a fourth-stump line, Dhawan finds the gap through cover with his drive
Rabada to Dhawan, FOUR, nice from Dhawan. Not very nice from Rabada. Follows-up a full length delivery with a fuller length outside off, easily driven down the ground through mid-off
Rabada to Dhawan, no run, good comeback. Good length on off, cramping Dhawan for room. He stands tall in his crease and punches to mid-off
Rabada to Dhawan, no run, good finish! Back of a length on off and Dhawan respectfully blocks the ball back to the bowler
Morkel to RG Sharma, FOUR, hits the back of a length but it is outside off, Rohit flat-bats a pull over square leg. Dragged that from outside off and the timing isn't exceptionally good either but just beats the fielder
Morkel to RG Sharma, no run, almost run-out. What happened there? There was a single in that, but that wasn't good calling from rohit. Full and driven to mid0on, Steyn dives across and cuts it off. Rohit calls for one and then sends Dhawan back, the throw is not direct and Dhawan gets a let-off. Rohit's view may have been impeded by Morkel in his follow through
Morkel to RG Sharma, no run, defended off the front foot
Morkel to RG Sharma, 1 run, back of a length outside off. dabbed to third man for a single
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, inside-edged to the keeper. Fuller but wide, Dhawan goes to cut but chops it back towards AB
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, uppish but on the bounce to extra cover. Not that full outside off, Dhawan goes through with the shot but lands well short
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, short and on leg, rank long hop to start from JP. Pulled to square leg
Duminy to RG Sharma, 2 runs, dropped. Rohit, what have you done? Morkel drops a relatively simple catch at backward square leg. Drooped short by JP on leg, Rohit pulls to Morkel high and it burst through his hands
Duminy to RG Sharma, 1 run, pushed with the spin to long-on
Duminy to Dhawan, no run, tossed up on leg, clipped to square leg
Duminy to Dhawan, no run, another drop. This one very hard though. Fuller on off, Dhawan gets a thick edge as he tries to defend. The deflection is quite big and AB spills it
Duminy to Dhawan, 1 run, overpitched on leg, driven to long-on
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, full on off, Dhawan drives back to Morkel
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, full again outside off, driven with bad timing to mid-off
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, not very wide but Dhawan flays at it, fuller than a good length. Goes past the outside edge
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, better from Dhawan. Just times the cut to point. Not very short but it is Morkel's height that is responsible for that bounce
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, very full outside off, square-driven out to point off the front foot
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, aah, some calmness. A maiden from Morkel. Too full outside off, Dhawan gets one front foot stride and drives to mid-off
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, drifts past Rohit's outside edge. Nicely bowled, slowed up through the air outside off
Duminy to RG Sharma, FOUR, that is not very nicely bowled. Very full, well down leg. Rohit gets down early and sweeps through backward square
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, shortish outside off, punch-driven to cover
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, tossed up outside off, Rohit goes back and uppishly drives that to mid-off
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, fullish and tossed up, solidly blocked
Duminy to RG Sharma, 1 run, turned away with the spin to square leg and the pair immediately decide there is a single. They make it easily
Morkel to RG Sharma, no run, fullish outside off, Rohit presents a full face to block
Morkel to RG Sharma, 1 run, may have been a slower bouncer. Dug in short aimed at Rohit's badge who takes his eyes off the ball as he pulls to fine leg
Morkel to Dhawan, no run, beauty! Impeccable line and length. Good length, just about missing the off stump. Dhawan too is beaten. May have moved away a touch.
Morkel to Dhawan, OUT, taken this time! Pressure has built and built into a wicket. And both fielders responsible for the first two dropped chances combine to remove Dhawan. Good length again outside off, Dhawan advances and tries to drive through the off side but the ball may have moved away again just enough. Thick outside edge and well taken by AB diving to his left.
Morkel to Kohli, 1 run, ooh, very full on middle but Kohli nudges the ball to midwicket for a single
Morkel to RG Sharma, no run, slightly full outside off, Rohit drives delectably to mid-off
Duminy to Kohli, no run, pushed through slightly quicker outside off, turned away to midwicket
Duminy to Kohli, 1 run, well played. Overpitched but well outside off, Kohli swivels as he plays a drive to long-on
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, shorter on off, nudged to midwicket. Little bit of turn here
Duminy to RG Sharma, 1 run, slower again on middle, Rohit finds the gap through midwicket for one
Duminy to Kohli, 1 run, drifts on with the arm outside off, no turn but Virat goes back and pushes the ball towards cover
Duminy to RG Sharma, 2 runs, too short, Rohit waits for the ball to come to him before cutting late in the gap in front of third man. Deep point runs around and cuts it in
Steyn to Kohli, 2 runs, well timed from Kohli. Full on middle and leg but Kohli plays the ball in the gap through midwicket. Did not look to hit that too hard. All placement
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, this is quick and full, may have tailed back in a touch. Kohli, though, gets his bat down early to drive to mid-on. Quick single, easily made
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, back of a length outside off, Rohit hangs back and drives to cover.
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, 137 ks, fuller, but Rohit doesn't pick that length. Almost sneaks through but Rohit gets bat down on it just in time. May have not hit off stump though
Steyn to RG Sharma, SIX, what a shot. Take a bow, Rohit! Picks the length very early and executes to perfection. Too full outside off, Rohit advances and smashes it over mid-off. Goes back a good distance too.
Steyn to RG Sharma, 1 run, calmly opens the face of the bat to guide one to third man
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, flatter on middle, pushed out to midwicket
Duminy to RG Sharma, no run, nicely flighted outside off, Rohit gets forward to tickle to midwicket
Duminy to RG Sharma, 1 run, dips on Rohit who is through his shot early. Fuller outside off, Rohit squirts the ball to point
Duminy to Kohli, FOUR, shot of the day. We have seen quite a few today but this one was special. A bit too full maybe but Kohli makes room and bottom-hands a cover drive against the spin through extra cover. Special stuff
Duminy to Kohli, no run, nudged with the spin to square leg
Duminy to Kohli, 1 wide, strays down leg, called wide
Duminy to Kohli, 1 leg bye, great finish. Goes wider off the crease and pitches it on a full length, Kohli is in two minds as to how to play that and eventually does neither. Is beaten and the ball hits his body before rolling away to third man
Steyn to Kohli, no run, full outside off, blocked off the front foot
Steyn to Kohli, 2 runs, thick outside edge, no slip in place though. Fuller outside off, Kohli looks to drive but the ball goes all along the ground to third man who runs across and cuts that in
Steyn to Kohli, no run, 138 ks, overpitched on off, pushed to mid-on this time. Good stuff from Steyn, accurate!
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, fuller on middle, Kohli plays that awkwardly but it still looks good as he works the ball to deep square leg
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, wow, that looked good. Too full and Rohit leans into a drive to cover
Steyn to RG Sharma, no run, excellent variation, 128 ks, slower delivery outside off. Rohit is beaten all ends up as he tries to cut into the off side.
Duminy to Kohli, no run, ooh, drifts on with the arm again and beaten again. Kohli looks to pat the ball to point but goes through
Duminy to Kohli, no run, no spin again. Flatter outside off, awkwardly played out to cover
Duminy to Kohli, no run, tossed up outside off, clipped to midwicket
Duminy to Kohli, 1 wide, drifts down leg and called wide, free run
Duminy to Kohli, FOUR, he plays the sweep, doesn't look very confident but he gets this to the boundary. Very close had he missed and he nearly missed. Overpitched on leg,and somehow VK gets some bat on it to the fine leg boundary
Duminy to Kohli, no run, skewed back to the bowler against the spin
Duminy to Kohli, 3 runs, that is a much better option. Slower on leg, Kohli just tickles that fine past the wide short fine leg. Morkel runs that down very well and saves a run
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, aah, flighted delivery end sup a full toss, Kohli clears one foot but drives to cover
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, this one lands at a fuller length and Kohli plays that swivel-drive to long-off
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, no run, flighted on off, defended watchfully
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, FOUR, oops! Bad full toss on leg, Rohit just heaves the full toss over midwicket for an easy boundary
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, no run, lands it nicely now. Much fuller on off, calmly defended
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, 1 run, pushed to long-on against the spin.
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, back of a length on middle, defended off the back foot
Rabada to RG Sharma, 1 run, very well played. Good bouncer, but doesn't get that high enough. Rohit arches his back and steers the ball to third man uppishly
Rabada to Kohli, no run, sneaks past Kohli's inside edge. That may have come back in as Kohli tries to steer to third man
Rabada to Kohli, 1 run, overpitched on middle, aiming for the quick yorker. But Kohli works the ball to fine leg
Rabada to RG Sharma, 1 run, 142 ks, pulled to deep square leg off the front foot. That was good pace but Rohit easily pulled that. Shows you the amount of time he has to play his strokes
Rabada to Kohli, no run, 144 ks, good length on middle, nudged away to midwicket
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, no run, tossed up on middle, decent amount of turn. Defended watchfully
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, 1 run, flighted again, too full though and drilled to long-off
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, worked away against the turn to square leg
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, 1 run, pushed to long-on
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, too full again, these two picking off the ones here. Easily played to long-off with a drive
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, no run, better length that. Much fuller but not too full. Played into the off side
Rabada to Kohli, 1 run, fuller length outside off, Kohli chops the ball to third man for a single
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, 143.3 ks, full and swinging back in a tad. Rohit squirts the ball to midwicket
Rabada to RG Sharma, 1 run, too full again, easily clipped to deep square leg
Rabada to Kohli, 1 run, too short and another easy single. Things all too easy for India at the moment. Kohli hangs back and dabs this to third man
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, 143 kph, fuller length outside off, not much swing. Rohit pushes this to point off the front foot
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, there comes out an exuberant stroke. But terribly executed. Full again on middle, Rohit looks to stand and deliver, tries to go over the bowler with a powerful smash but the ball hurries onto him and skews to mid-on
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, slower thorugh the air but the line is a bit leg side-ish. Tickled away to square leg
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, googly on off, Kohli rocks back and punches to long-on for one
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, no run, another googly. Rohit did not pick that. plays outside the line. The ball hits him on the pads but struck outside off
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, SIX, absolutely massive that. Huge huge six to bring up his fifty. He dances down the track and muscles the ball well over long-off, great shot.
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, no run, a bit short, played to square leg
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, 1 run, driven with the turn to long-on.
Rabada to RG Sharma, no run, good ball. Very tight lines. Full and coming back into Rohit's pads. Almost creeps through but Rohit gets bat down in time
Rabada to RG Sharma, 1 run, well steered, just waits for that ball to come to him before guiding the ball to third man.
Rabada to Kohli, 1 run, inside edge now. A bit full outside off, Kohli looks for a gap to third man but a bit of inward movement takes the ball to his inside edge
Rabada to RG Sharma, 3 runs, high full toss on middle, Rohit doesn't try to heave it but instead pushes the ball past mid-on. Morkel chases that down well
Rabada to Kohli, no run, low full toss, trying for a yorker again. Kohli bunts that to mid-on
Rabada to Kohli, no run, slower offcutter, bouncer! Kohli stays back and keeps it out
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, FOUR, low full toss, Rohit gets down early and sweeps the ball through square leg. Amla runs around from midwicket but the ball goes through
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, 1 run, easily pushed to long-on. No trouble
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, almost sneaks through. Fuller and flatter, Kohli goes back instead of forward, keeps it out though
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 3 runs, misfield from Amla. Worked away with soft hands to deep square, the misfield gives them an additional run
Imran Tahir to RG Sharma, 1 run, driven with the turn to long-off
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, slower through the air, clipped to midwicket
Duminy to RG Sharma, OUT, Rohit falls! Excellent improvisation there from JP. Sees Rohit coming down and bowls that a touch shorter. Rohit is left feeling for that and can only pat the ball back to JP who dives low and holds on to a good catch. He is pumped too.
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, shorter and flatter outside off, MS rocks back and muscles it back to JP.
Duminy to Dhoni, 2 runs, short and quick, flat-batted to deep cover
Duminy to Dhoni, 1 run, too full, calmly pushed to long-on with the spin
Duminy to Kohli, 1 run, too full again from JP. Flights that one right up, but Kohli can easily play that to long-on for an easy single
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, 84 ks, that's better. lands it on a full length, not too full. Dhoni works the ball to square leg
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, Kohli looking in great touch now. Fuller ball on middle and leg, turned away off his pads to deep square leg
Steyn to Dhoni, no run, 137.3 ks, full and straight, zoned in on Dhoni's pads, pushed out to mid-off
Steyn to Dhoni, 1 run, good running, full and angling in again, Dhoni pushes the ball to the right of mid-off and sets off for one
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, wonderful timing. Tails in to Kohli who flicks the ball uppishly, wide of square leg to the deep square leg fielder
Steyn to Dhoni, FOUR, change in type of delivery. He angles this one away from Dhoni who stays in his crease and just pushes the ball in the gap through point. Well played.
Steyn to Dhoni, no run, shorter delivery now on off, Dhoni gets both his feet off the ground and pats the ball to point
Duminy to Kohli, 1 run, overpitched outside off, smashed out to deep cover
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, fullish again outside off, driven to cover
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, muscled to cover with lots of bottom-handed power. A touch short and smashed to cover
Duminy to Dhoni, 3 runs, too short again, Dhoni hangs back and cuts to find the gap through point
Duminy to Kohli, 1 run, flat and quick on leg, worked fine towards deep fine leg
Duminy to Dhoni, 2 runs, darted in outside off, Dhoni just times the cut to deep point for a comfortable brace
Steyn to Kohli, no run, very quick and full on off, squirted out to mid-off
Steyn to Kohli, no run, good length on off, defended into the off side. the point fielder is quick on that
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, zoned in on Kohli's pads who flicks into the gap to deep midwicket
Steyn to Dhoni, FOUR, aah, strays in line now. Angled into Dhoni's pads but goes too fine as Dhoni just gets some bat on it to fine leg
Steyn to Dhoni, 1 run, shorter outside off, jabbed down to third man
Steyn to Kohli, no run, good length outside off, Kohli gets behind the line of that to defend back to Steyn
Morkel to Dhoni, 1 run, out with a direct hit and that is not frequent with MS. Good length on off, defended into the off side and sets off immediately. He sprinted to the other end and apologises straightaway, he knew that was a bad call
Morkel to Kohli, no run, shortish on middle and leg, worked away off his ribs to square leg
Morkel to Kohli, 1 run, too leg side-ish, nudged off his hips to fine leg
Morkel to Dhoni, no run, good length, coming in, slapped to point
Morkel to Dhoni, no run, again a bit full, all these deliveries aimed at the pads. But the movement isn't prodigious. Dhoni drives to mid-off
Morkel to Dhoni, no run, 136.4 ks, shortish outside off with a hint of tail. Left alone by Dhoni
Behardien to Kohli, 1 run, 113.8 ks, gentle delivery on middle, pushed down to long-on
Behardien to Dhoni, 1 run, again aimed in at Dhoni's pads who has no trouble in jabbing a drive to long-off
Behardien to Kohli, 1 run, wider outside off, driven to deep cover for another single
Behardien to Dhoni, no run, good length on off, pushed out to cover off the front foot
Behardien to Dhoni, no run, overpitched, misfield, and almost a run-out. Other than that, a nothing delivery. Driven to cover where there is a fumble, there is some miscommunication but no harm
Behardien to Dhoni, no run, overpitched once again on middle and leg, defended back to the bowler
Morkel to Kohli, no run, short delivery on off, not getting high enough, but Kohli defends the back of a length delivery to point
Morkel to Kohli, 1 run, leg side-ish again and Kohli tickles this one fine to fine leg
Morkel to Dhoni, 1 run, good length on a fourth-stump line, carved out to deep cover.
Morkel to Kohli, no run, slower delivery, good variation. On middle and Kohli plays it with soft hands towards square leg. MS says there is no run there
Morkel to Kohli, FOUR, beautifully played. Doesn't hit that, he times that. He finds the gap through mid-off. Morkel goes fuller this time and VK gets a front stride and leans this through mid-off
Morkel to Kohli, no run, goes back to that good length, turned to midwicket
Behardien to Dhoni, FOUR, strays in line and Dhoni tickles that very fine for four. Just needed some bat on that and the ball races for four.
Behardien to Dhoni, 1 run, fuller length on middle, slapped to long-on
Behardien to Kohli, no run, slower delivery outside off, carved out to cover.
Behardien to Kohli, no run, tight from Fudge, fullish on middle, Kohli nurdles the ball to midwicket
Behardien to Kohli, 1 run, full now but straight again, skewed off the inside half of the bat to deep square leg
Behardien to Dhoni, no run, 116 ks, yorker outside off but no pace on that. Dug out by MS back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, flat and quick on leg, Kohli goes back quickly to defend
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, flat again, not much flight. Driven towards long-on, a massive diving effort from the midwicket fielder to stop that but can't
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, overpitched on off, dug out to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, comes down the track and coverts the flight into a yorker, pushed to cover
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, another dot ball as Dhoni tamely pats the ball into the off side
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, what a ripper. Unplayable that. Slower through the air, may have been the first slower one in the over. That one pitches on off and turns away to deep Dhoni's outside edge. Wow, great to watch
Rabada to Kohli, 1 run, too full and straying on Kohli's pads who flicks the ball to deep square leg for another single. All too easy for VK.
Rabada to Dhoni, no run, better from Rabada and some more miscommunication from these two. Good length on off, Dhoni pushes the ball towards cover and looks for a single but Kohli sends him back, looked like a single was on.
Rabada to Dhoni, no run, fuller angling in, to middle. Played with the angle to midwicket
Rabada to Dhoni, no run, again full on off, no room at all. Pushed out to mid-off
Rabada to Dhoni, no run, 139.2 ks, full but not a half-volley. Muscled out to AB at wide mid-off
Rabada to Dhoni, no run, excellent finish. Tight over. Just one off that. He gets high off his toes and pats the ball towards point
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, 49 for Kohli, driven to long-on. Too full, giving Kohli an easy run
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, 1 run, skips down the track, smothers the spin and works the ball to long-on for another run
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, flat and pushed back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, flat again, darted in on off. Kept out by VK
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, and there is the much-awaited moment, fifty for Kohli. Well played. Calmly pushes the googly towards cover and gets the single
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, slightly wide and short. Dhoni goes for the cut and misses. Tahir is excited but no bat.
Rabada to Kohli, no run, short delivery on Kohli's ribs, almost kisses his glove too as he tries to flick. He isn't unhappy with the call but that isnt a wide
Rabada to Kohli, no run, good delivery on off, patted out to point
Rabada to Kohli, no run, 142.3 ks, full on off, Kohli drives back to the bowler with a full face
Rabada to Kohli, 1 run, hustles Kohli for pace who flicks late to mid-on. Rather full that
Rabada to Dhoni, no run, banged in short and gets Dhoni hopping now. He plays the ball out to square leg awkwardly
Rabada to Dhoni, 1 wide, drifts in line now and Dhoni lets the ball go, called wide down the leg side
Rabada to Dhoni, 1 run, almost bunts the ball to point. Short and wide, Dhoni plays a nothing shot and eventually gets the ball wide of point for a single
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, nicely tossed up, extracting a bit of turn. Dhoni dances down the track and almost gets beaten. Pads it back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, 1 run, dances down the track and clips to long-on
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, too short on leg, Kohli swivel-pulls to backward square
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, drilled to long-on
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, 1 run, beautiful flight outside off, somehow Dhoni gets to the pitch and drives to long-off
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, googly on off and middle, played back down the track watchfully
Morkel to Dhoni, 1 run, good improvisation from Morkel and Dhoni. MS advances at MM, but Morkel pulls his length back and Dhoni improvises well too to muscle to cover
Morkel to Kohli, 2 runs, worked nicely off his pads to deep fine leg. The ball goes towards backward square and they get two
Morkel to Kohli, no run, 140.5 kph, on leg and clipped to square leg straight to the fielder
Morkel to Kohli, 2 runs, just wide of square leg. Uppishly fliced just wide of that square leg fielder. Swinging back in and Kohli flicks again, Tahir at fine leg misfields giving them another
Morkel to Kohli, no run, angling in to middle, pushed out to midwicket
Morkel to Kohli, 1 run, shorter on off, Kohli swivel-pulls down to fine leg, got onto that length very quickly
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, short and wide, smashed out to point where there is a misfield, giving them a single
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, no run, good variation in length now, lands it on that length where M doesn't know whether to go back or front. Powered to cover
Imran Tahir to Dhoni, 1 run, drilled to long-on now again
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, googly on off and middle, turned away with the spin to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run
Imran Tahir to Kohli, no run, some more flight, Kohli gets down early and looks to sweep. He just doesn't look at home with that shot. the ball bounces extra and hits him high on the body
Morkel to Dhoni, no run, slightly full on off, Dhoni looks to go for a heave back over Morkel's head but the ball sneaks in a touch, and takes Dhoni's inside edge
Morkel to Dhoni, 1 run, slower delivery on a good length outside off, slapped to cover
Morkel to Kohli, 1 run, looking for another boundary, short on middle, Kohli pulls uppishly wide of the backward square leg fielder to deep square leg. Looking for the boundaries now
Morkel to Dhoni, no run, good length again, hitting that hard length and the line is pretty good - on middle. Dhoni works the ball to midwicket
Morkel to Dhoni, 2 runs, 133.9 ks, short on off, Dhoni goes back and flat-bats a pull past midwicket for an important two
Morkel to Dhoni, 1 run, 142.5 kph, almost catches it on his follow through does Morkel. Shortish on middle, Dhoni advances but the ball climbs and hits Dhoni's splice as looks to heave. Straight down the ground for one
Duminy to Dhoni, 1 run, short and flat outside off, Dhoni rocks back and muscles a pull back to JP who gets some hand on it but can't prevent the single
Duminy to Kohli, 1 run, well bowled, delivered wider outside off as Kohli skips down and tries to belt the ball down the ground. Doesn't get close to the ball but hits to long-on
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, missed stumping. The bat goes flying to midwicket. Everything is happening now. Gets to the pitch but the ball creeps through and QdK doesn't see it either. The bat slipped out of Dhoni's hand probably due to the buckets of sweat
Duminy to Dhoni, 1 wide, flat and wide outside off, Dhoni leaves. Close call but given wide
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, good bowling here. Not overly flat, just a bit of air on that. Dhoni comes down and hits the ball back to JP
Duminy to Dhoni, FOUR, too short but this time Dhoni was hanging back and powers the ball with lots of bottom hand through cover. Shades of the 2011 World Cup final
Duminy to Dhoni, no run, whoa! take cover, Dhoni is coming. Flighted outside off, Dhoni gets to the pitch and absolutely belts that with all his might back at the unprotected bowler who spills the ball, straight back at his midrift that was. Dangerous. It'd be quite amazing if he hasn't hurt himself
Steyn to Kohli, no run, angling in on leg on a good length, Kohli looks to go over midwicket but takes the inside-edge instead
Steyn to Kohli, no run, another dot. Follows the backing-away Kohli who can only find the fielder at midwicket as the ball hits his glove
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, back of a length on middle, nudged off to fine leg
Steyn to Dhoni, no run, excellent stuff this. Nothing these two quality batsmen can do. Good length again on middle at good pace, Dhoni keeps the ball out with a tickle to square leg
Steyn to Dhoni, 1 run, back of a length but this time just wide outside off, bunted out to cover for one
Steyn to Kohli, no run, 139.6 ks, what an over that. the pressure builds.Slightly fuller on leg and Kohli is through his attempted swipe. The inside edge rolls to point
Morkel to Dhoni, no run, flat-batted to mid-off. Conscious effort not to bowl anything full. Short of a length on off, Dhoni skips down but can only find the fielder
Morkel to Dhoni, 1 run, and again, back of a length on middle. Dhoni heaves this one to deep midwicket for one
Morkel to Kohli, 1 run, short on off, Kohli picks this one up early and uppishly pulls to deep midwicket again
Morkel to Dhoni, FOUR, falls short of the fielder. This time the ball goes for four. Short again on middle, Dhoni flat-bats it but doesn't get all of it, the ball lands just short of Behardien at long-on and the ball goes through
Morkel to Dhoni, OUT, gone! What a wicket, huge huge stuff. Short ball outside off, Dhoni looks to dab that over short third man but the ball lobs up to Steyn at short third man. takes an easy catch and this match gets interesting
Morkel to Raina, no run, good length on leg, Raina clips his first ball to square leg
Steyn to Kohli, no run, another dot. Full and angling in on leg, Kohli looks to swipe to leg but is hit on the thigh pad again
Steyn to Kohli, no run, another swipe to leg which is missed. Tailing in to Kohli who is struck on the thigh pad, the ball looks destined for the boundary but Qdk makes a good diving stop
Steyn to Kohli, 2 runs, slower ball on middle and leg, Kohli works the ball towards deep fine leg and scampers back for the second. He dives full-length but has he made his ground? The bat looks on the line but have the bails been dislodged? Looks very very close. Quinton de Kock takes the bails out immediately. Benefit of doubt maybe? Big big call. Given not out. India get the extra run too. The fielder was Imran Tahir
Steyn to Kohli, FOUR, what a response that is. Good length and he gives himself room and smashes the drive through the vacant cover region. More face of the bat presents more opportunity
Steyn to Kohli, no run, picks the midwicket fielder. Short again on leg, Kohli pulls nicely but straight to that man
Steyn to Kohli, 1 wide, 114.5 ks, slower ball down leg. Called wide
Steyn to Kohli, 1 run, short on middle, worked to fine leg to keep strike
Imran Tahir to Kohli, FOUR, reverse-swept for four. What a shot Kohli. Who said he was out of form? Flatter on off, he connects beautifully and finds the gap through backward point
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, clever from Kohli. Pushes this one to long-on for a single. Hits Raina's bat on the follow through but they take the single
Imran Tahir to Raina, OUT, taken! Not a great shot from Raine with Kohli going strong from the other end. Googly outside off, Raina looks to drive over the man at long-off but doesn't get all of it. Lands down Miller's throat at long-off. A single would have been a good result but he wanted more. One crucial moment lost by Raina and India
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 1 run, darted in on leg, worked off his legs to fine leg
Imran Tahir to Rahane, 1 run, short outside off, Rahane gets a good single as he plays fine late cut for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli, 2 runs, a better throw would have had him! Another big moment in this match. Flat on middle, Kohli works this towards midwicket and comes back for the second. The fielder fumbles and returns a slow throw and Kohli is fit enough to get back for two easily
Rabada to Rahane, 1 wide, given wide, iffy call. Rahane shuffles across and tries to help that to fine leg and the ball goes close to leg stump.
Rabada to Rahane, no run, beats Rahane's outside edge as he looks to steer to third man. Fullish length outside off and Rahane wants to give Kohli the strike but can't connect
Rabada to Rahane, no run, just short of Miller and he fields that too. Good fielding. Good length on middle and Rahane pulls that on the bouce to midwicket. Good stuff
Rabada to Rahane, 2 runs, they steal the second. excellent running from Kohli. Rahane comes down the track and slogs the length delivery to long-on, Steyn is slow on that and Kohli scampers back, fit man
Rabada to Rahane, 1 run, follows Rahane who back away looking to exploit the 4-5 field. Heaved away to deep midwicket
Rabada to Kohli, 1 wide, slipped out maybe. And that goes down the leg and high over Kohli's head. Just the one wide
Rabada to Kohli, 1 bye, 143.7 kph, full again and following Kohli who also backs away. The ball goes through as he tries to swipe into the leg side. QdK fumbles while collecting, they get another run
Rabada to Rahane, no run, lots happening here. Rahane shuffles across now and the ball is on a good length on middle, Rahane is struck high on the thigh pad. No run as QdK is quick on it
Morkel to Kohli, OUT, Morkel wins this moment. What a wicket this is. Is this the defining moment? Short on leg and Kohli can only heave the ball in the air to Miller at deep midwicket who takes a comfortable catch. This line, length and field placement has worked wonders so far. Stalled Kohli throughout the second part of his innings. Take a bow, Russell Domingo and AB de Villiers
Morkel to Rahane, OUT, repeat delivery. Repeat shot. Repeat dismissal. Miller takes this low to the ground, that being the only difference. Banged in short again, Rahane advances and slogs this in the air to deep midwicket. Are these percentage shots? With this consistent length, the batsmen have been found out playing poor shots.
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh, 1 wide, on a hat-trick, and he will continue to be. Strays down leg and called wide
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh, no run, fullish length, worked out to midwicket
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, shorter length again, Harbhajan plays a punchy pull to deep midwicket
Morkel to Patel, 1 run, back of a length once again on off, inside-edged down to fine leg for a single
Morkel to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, shortish length again, all Harbhajan can do is pull to deep midwicket
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run
Imran Tahir to Patel, 1 run, flat again on off, Axar skews the ball towards midwicket and they look for two but Bhajji sends him back
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh, no run, yorker, and a quick one too. bhajji squeezes this to cover. No run
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh, no run, nicely slowed up. Tossed up wider outside off, Harbhajan looks to clobber that down the ground but the heave is beaten
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh, FOUR, he'll get four now. Low full toss on leg, Harbhajan just helps the ball along its way to the boundary past fine leg
Imran Tahir to Harbhajan Singh, no run, what was happened there? Stumped, bowled, caught? Googly on leg and Harbhajan is beaten as he tries to heave. QdK takes the bails out but Bhajji's feet are still inside the crease. Harbhajan thinks he is bowled and walks out of the crease but given not out on tv replays
Steyn to Patel, no run, good length on off, chopped back to the bowler
Steyn to Patel, 1 run, driven to deep cover
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, full on off, Bhajji looks for the big heave and a thick inside edge back on his body. They take the single, Steyn tries to run him out in his follow through but doesn't succeed
Steyn to Patel, 2 runs, that length again. Good length on leg, heaved away to deep midwicket where Amla fumbles allowing the extra run
Steyn to Patel, 1 run, yorker outside off, good variation. Axar digs this one out to cover
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh, 2 runs, full and wide outside off, carved out to deep cover on the bounce
Rabada to Patel, 1 run, 141.1 kph, guess what? It is another back of a length delivery on leg which is followed by a massive heave to deep midwicket
Rabada to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, 144.6 kph, good length on middle, flat-batted to midwicket
Rabada to Patel, 1 run, back of a length on leg, Axar is struck on the body and rolls nowhere.
Rabada to Harbhajan Singh, 2 runs, varying this well, full on middle, inside-edged to backward square leg for a quick brace
Rabada to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, speared into the blockhole on middle, squeezed to long-on
Rabada to Patel, no run, yorker on middle, Axar drives to the bowler who fires back an inaccurate throw to QdK
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh, 2 runs, Morkel makes a mess of another catch. Never looked like getting under that. Full outside off which is lobbed up in the air towards short third man. Morkel backtracks and advances and eventually the ball drops
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, good length, pulled to fine leg
Steyn to Patel, 1 run, what fielding. Deserved a wicket for that piece of fielding. Short on off, flat-batted to Miller at mid-off who dives to his right and makes an amazing stop. He then gets up and fires a throw to the non-striker's end and a direct hit would have had him.
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh, 2 runs, low full toss, heaved away to deep square leg for two
Steyn to Harbhajan Singh, 1 run, full on off, driven to mid-off. Harbhajan ambles to the other end and AB throws at the non-strikers end but misses.
Steyn to Patel, SIX, final one goes out of the ground. What a shot that is too. Good length on middle and Axar plays this straight over Steyn's head with a straight elbow. SA complete an amazing turnaround win to go 2-1 up in the series.
Willey to Azhar Ali, FOUR, a hint of swing, but straight into the middle of a sweetly timed leg clip. A racing start!
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, full length, attacking the blockhole, and duly blocked
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, worked with the swing, out to Ali at square leg
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, definite signs of swing, more of an off-stump line now and deflected with a bit of unease to square leg
Willey to Azhar Ali, FOUR, forward and driven through the covers. It don't need a thing if you ain't got the right length for your swing ...
Willey to Azhar Ali, no run, better line and length, a solid block to finish a leaky over
Topley to Bilal Asif, 1 wide, swing, but wide and heading wider
Topley to Bilal Asif, 1 run, swing, and a much tighter line, much better, a genuine edge and Joe Root at slip can't quite get his fingers under a half-volley of a chance!
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 wide, down the leg side. That one did not swing ...
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, bending back into the right-hander, defended with a squeeze of bat and pad, and half an appeal, but a clear inside-edge, outside the line. Good ball
Topley to Azhar Ali, 1 wide, hmmm ... down the leg-side again. It's like watching Harmison at Old Trafford 2007 ...
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, much better, banged onto a good length, left alone on line, tight to off stump
Topley to Azhar Ali, no run, outside off again, wider line, and through to the keeper
Topley to Azhar Ali, OUT, bending back in, very full, very straight, and that is plumb! Remarkable scenes. Three wides, an edge, an inside-edge, and now a wicket! Azhar Ali lbw b Topley 8 (10m 10b 2x4 0x6) SR: 80.00
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, outside off, joins the dots nicely. Well, it is all happening
Willey to Bilal Asif, no run, outside off, holding its line across the right-hander. Through to the keeper
Willey to Bilal Asif, no run, good line again, lifting a touch off the deck. Through to the keeper
Willey to Bilal Asif, no run, variable bounce ... England won't mind that, as another off-stump delivery scuttles through to the keeper
Willey to Bilal Asif, 1 run, width, and glided down to third man
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, much better line in this over
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, up on the toes, on the back foot, punched calmly into the gap in the covers
Topley to Bilal Asif, no run, outside off, Buttler gathers
Topley to Bilal Asif, OUT, massive appeal as Topley straightens another one into the pads! And England will review. Looks mighty straight, but it was a big stride, might be a height issue? Nope, he's a goner!
Bilal Asif lbw b Topley 2 (19m 7b 0x4 0x6) SR: 28.57
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, another appeal, another inducker to the right-hander ... dicey times
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, this one holds its line, width and a swish
Topley to Younis Khan, FOUR, very wide, would have been called as such if Younis had left it alone, but instead he toe-ends a wipe for four through long-off. The most village passage of play of the tour ... completed by Eoin Morgan running through treacle and tumbling in a heap into the boundary rope ...
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, better ball, fuller length, Younis can't time his drive.
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, fuller length, defended. Weirdness going on with the sightscreens. Delays all over the shop
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, on the pads, whipped fine. Can't bowl there, lad. As his Headingley fans will be telling him next term.
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, driven into the covers and that's a stunning diving stop by Taylor, who relays to his colleague at point in a single movement
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, full, targeting the base of the stumps
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, slower ball, Hafeez loiters in his crease and clips to square leg
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tight line, defended
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, slower ball, on off stump, inside-edged defence, the movement is subtle but significant
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, punched on the back foot to cover
Topley to Younis Khan, FOUR, lovely strike, full face, flowing bat. Through long-off
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, a touch wider, can't time a back-foot drive
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, width, and driven back to the bowler
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, full length, pushed into the covers
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, beautiful strike, stands tall on the back foot, and it is as if the act of standing tall is sufficient to impart all of the pace and timing required for a perfect straight boundary
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, a touch wider, defended
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on leg stump, short midwicket tidies up
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the pads, pushed to cover
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, shuffles into line to defend on the back foot
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, another over dotted up
Topley to Younis Khan, 1 run, crunched into the covers, Hales fields, with a crunch. That stung
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, onto the front foot, driven again
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, width, cut into the covers
Topley to Younis Khan, 1 leg bye, on the pads, tucked to short fine leg
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, Hafeez returns the strike
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, outside off, another decent over notched up
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, sumptuous timing, good stride, flowing blade. Straight as straight can be for the new bowler
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, defended into the off-side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, yorker! And a massive appeal! That would have been tight if there's no bat involved ...They are reviewing. But, there's more bat involved than in a darkened cave. On we go
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, another attempted yorker but too full this time, Hafeez whisks through square leg
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, short but straight, crunched to cover point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, defended
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, onto the back foot, defended to cover
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, sharp call of no, and just as well, pushed into the covers
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, solid forward defence, good full length, but climbing into the bat
Topley to Younis Khan, no run, defended
Topley to Younis Khan, OUT, pulled, straight to mid-on, and Younis Khan's ODI career is over! Adil Rashid completes a low catch with a tumble and England have an opening
Younis Khan c Rashid b Topley 9 (28m 18b 2x4 0x6) SR: 50.00
Topley to Shoaib Malik, no run, good length, defended. Interesting times...
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, outside off, clunked to point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, blocked on the back foot
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, poked away again, no swing but a tidy line
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, too short, and Hafeez latches onto that with a tremendous pull, fizzes off the bat and through the gap. He is in some form
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, forward and poked to cover
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, forward and defended. Pakistan faced with a spot of regrouping action ...
Topley to Shoaib Malik, no run, forward and defended
Topley to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, a clipped single to the leg side
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, yes, no, maybe ... Hafeez's call nearly leads to another run-out! He is in some form, but he is still a liability...
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, less drama this time
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, slower ball, on the pads, clipped to fine leg
Topley to Shoaib Malik, no run, outside off, climbing through to the keeper
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, forward and defended to cover
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, clipped to midwicket and a quick call. Which is an achievement in itself
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, worked with an angled bat to midwicket
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, another single, and up comes Pakistan's fifty
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 2 runs, milking the bowling a touch now, picks the gap with a beautiful back-foot drive
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, forward and defended, and I think it's time for some spin
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, too short, and slapped up and over the leg side. Rashid is too slow to err on length, and he pays the price
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, wider and flatter, fenced through point
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, FOUR, short again, slammed out to cow corner, and Hales is ten yards in from the boundary! He'd have swallowed that if he was on the rope!
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, driven through the off side, runs leaking now ...
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up, might have been the googly, but calmly pushed to cover
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, sharp turn but too easy to loiter on the back foot and watch it into the middle of the bat. Cut into the covers for an expensive over
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, driven into the covers
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, a touch of width, eased down to third man
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, wider on the crease, Stuart Broad-style, speared into the toes
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, open face, steered down to third man
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, full length, measured drive to mid-on
Woakes to Shoaib Malik, no run, bouncer. Well bowled, well ducked
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, flighted, gets this to dip and bounce (always a good start), pushed into the covers for one
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, tossed up on the stumps, worked to leg
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, Malik gets forward and punches ODI run number 6001 through the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up on leg stump, squeezed behind square
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, gives it some air, Malik gets a stride in and drives to mid-off
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through, tapped back to the fielder at mid-off again - much quieter second over from Rashid
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, floated up on the stumps, Hafeez tries to paddle it fine and Buttler moves across in anticipation, the ball actually runs behind him and Malik had come halfway down before being sent back
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, comes forward and works one down the ground
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, tossed up, spinning in and turned short into the leg side
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, clipped to the man at midwicket
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, flat on the stumps and Malik again finds the fielder at midwicket
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, tight lines from Moeen, played with the turn back to the on side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, tossed up and pushed through the covers coming forwards
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, poorly fielded down at deep backward point and Hafeez gets four, played the late cut well but should have been cut off
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, Hafeez is done by the googly again, as he was in the Sharjah Test, just manages to get his bat down in front of the stumps, fractionally before the ball thumped into his back leg
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, comes forward and pushes into the off side
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, tossed up, Malik uses his pad and the ball loops safely into a vacant spot
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, drops a little short, Hafeez swivels and pulls on out to deep midwicket
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, angled in on the stumps, clipped through midwicket
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up outside off, pushed wide of cover
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, drops back and cuts, Taylor doesn't field it cleanly but is quickly up and after it to prevent a run
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, taken on the full through the leg side
Ali to Shoaib Malik, FOUR, Malik skips out and hoicks the ball into the leg side, looked a little risky but he got it between deep midwicket and long-on and it bounces to the rope
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, outside off, driven into the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up high on off stump, reaches out and punch fine of mid-off for one
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, gives it some air, driven square along the carpet
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, SIX, Rashid drops in the googly and this time Hafeez doesn't have any problems, picks it up and crunches the ball into the fence in front of the grass banks at deep midwicket - raises the bat for his fifty
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, slightly wide, steered between point and short third man for one more
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, floated up around off stump, Malik drills it to long-off
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 2 runs, pushed through flat on middle and off, Malik flicks it into a gap at deep square leg for two
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 wide, spinning down the leg side, Malik lets it go
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, clipped off the pads through midwicket
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, angled in and turned to leg, can't get this through the infield
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, tossed up, Hafeez is down early, sweeps with the vigour of Dick van Dyke in Mary Poppins and gets four through square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, shuffles across and flicks one behind square on the leg side
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through flat outside off, defended on the back foot
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, flat around off stump, pushed square
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, gives this some air, down the leg side and then spinning, beats Hafeez's sweep to strike the pads. Well bowled
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, comes forward and pushes back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, more spin and bounce for Rashid, the batsman pulls out of an attempted cut
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, flighted, comes forward and drives through the covers
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, no run, pushed through, stays a little low and there's an "ooh" from the bowler as Malik jabs it away
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, punched back down the track, Moeen dives across to grab it
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up and worked behind square on the leg side, Morgan hares after it and prevents a single
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up and flicked in the air behind backward square leg, Hafeez paddling across the line
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run
Ali to Shoaib Malik, no run, steps out and blocks back to the bowler
Ali to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, pushed through outside the line of off, Malik waits on it and then cocks his wrists at the last moment to glide past the keeper
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, 1 run, shuffles across and punches square through the off side out to the sweeper
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, flighted, gets forward, drives to mid-off
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tossed up, punched into the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, gets on to the front foot but again can't get it past mid-off
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tight lines, on middle and off, Hafeez pokes it away into a gap in the covers for one
Rashid to Shoaib Malik, FOUR, drops short and Malik finishes the over with a boundary, roundhousing a pull out towards wide long-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the stumps, clipped behind square
Ali to Shoaib Malik, OUT, drops back and flips into the leg side... taken! Silence around the ground as Malik begins to wander off, realising he has tossed away his wicket there. Might have just stopped in the surface a touch, hit it in the air and Roy walked in to accept the gift
Shoaib Malik c Roy b Ali 26 (54m 35b 3x4 0x6) SR: 74.28
Ali to Babar Azam, 1 run, length ball on the stumps, drops back and nudges behind square
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the stumps, patted away
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, overpitched outside off, Hafeez creams a drive through the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed into the covers coming forwards
Rashid to Babar Azam, no run, flat legbreak in the channel outside off, left alone
Rashid to Babar Azam, no run, on the stumps, worked short to the on side
Rashid to Babar Azam, no run, gives it some air, dipping on middle and leg, smother it on the front foot
Rashid to Babar Azam, no run, gets on to the front foot and pushes into the covers
Rashid to Babar Azam, no run, gets a bit of turn and bounce and hits the splice
Rashid to Babar Azam, 1 run, picks the gap this time and strokes one out towards deep cover
Ali to Babar Azam, no run, big lbw appeal from Moeen, turning the ball past the inside edge into the front pad... Maybe outside the line?
Ali to Babar Azam, no run, worked to the leg side
Ali to Babar Azam, no run, presses forward, dabs short into the covers
Ali to Babar Azam, 1 run, slightly short from Moeen, drops back and chops a single to long-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, tossed up around off stump and beautifully played, minimal backlift and just stroked through the covers for four
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, goes round the wicket, Hafeez flicks it towards mid-on
Rashid to Babar Azam, 1 run, drops short, spinning away outside off, Azam cuts in front of square
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, pitching on off stump, Hafeez makes room to steer through point to the man in the deep
Rashid to Babar Azam, 1 run, Rashid gives it some air, Azam gets out and bunts one down the ground to long-off
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 byes, Hafeez aims a woolly woof down the ground and is beaten by the turn, as is Buttler and the ball runs away for byes
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, pushed into a gap on the off side
Rashid to Babar Azam, SIX, tossed up, the googly, Azam picks it and smites six over long-on! His first in international cricket
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed through, Hafeez dabs into the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the stumps, turned to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, good length, Hafeez gets down early and sweeps fine for one
Ali to Babar Azam, no run, on the stumps, clipped towards midwicket
Ali to Babar Azam, no run, flighted, outside off, punched into the covers
Ali to Babar Azam, 1 run, tossed up, Azam uses the feet and drills back past the bowler, who misses it in his follow through
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, shortish, stays back in the crease and runs the ball to third man
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, over the wicket, angled across the right-hander, glided to third man for one more
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, drops short and Azam can't get his cut past backward point
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, goes round the wicket, pitched up and thumped through the covers
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, goes back and steers the ball towards point
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, good length, blocked into the covers
Root to Babar Azam, 1 run, on the pads, Azam waits in the crease and nudges it fine
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up and swept through backward square
Root to Babar Azam, 1 run, Root dobs the ball on leg stump, flicked off the pads for one more
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, low full toss, Hafeez sweeps but sends it straight to square leg
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, outside leg stump, Hafeez gets down to sweep, picks up a couple to fine leg... Or rather just the one, with the umpires calling a short run
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, tossed up and clipped through midwicket for one more
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the pads, flicked fine and gathered with a tumble ...
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, down the leg side, massive appeal, England are sure there was bat but the umpire thinks pad ... and the pad was nowhere near! No reviews for England ...
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, insult to injury, a fierce thump into the covers
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, round the wicket, defended back down the wicket
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, pushed into the covers
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, straightening on leg stump, defended awkwardly from the crease
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, round the wicket, worked to square leg
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, milked for another single to square leg
Root to Babar Azam, no run, on the pads, clipped to midwicket, a loud cry of no. Quite right too
Root to Babar Azam, no run, round the wicket, defended to midwicket again
Root to Babar Azam, 1 run, again, clipped to leg. It's the only way to go
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, down the track, smashed through the covers, nope, worked to leg again
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, half an appeal but Hafeez was well back on his stumps and that was going down leg
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, down the track, clipped to midwicket
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, round the wicket, tight restrictive line
Topley to Babar Azam, 1 run, worked to leg once again
Topley to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, slower ball, crunched into the covers
Topley to Babar Azam, no run, yorker length, drilled up to mid-on
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 leg bye, round the wicket, Hafeez sweeps and a big appeal! Leg byes are given so there's no bat involved, but it looks to have pitched outside the line
Root to Babar Azam, 1 run, driven down to long-off
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, clipped to midwicket
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, down the leg-side, too easy to deflect it round the corner
Root to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, worked to leg again. Obviously
Root to Babar Azam, no run, defended back down the pitch and that will be drinks
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, outside off, driven out to point
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, outside off, pushed to cover
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, back of a length, slapped back at Woakes' ankles, who fields in his followthrough
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, drilled into the covers
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, width, and cut sharply to point but half-fielded with a dive
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, stands tall in defence, decent over
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, defended out to midwicket, round the wicket
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, tight line from round the wicket again, blocked on the back foot
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, worked into the covers
Willey to Babar Azam, FOUR, on the pads, flicked around the corner, using the angle that the round-the-wicket line already created. Easy pickings
Willey to Babar Azam, SIX, too short, flogged on the up over cow corner, and now Pakistan are cooking!
Willey to Babar Azam, 2 runs, speared into the toes but worked fine, good running
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, FOUR, good delivery, but there's no slip at this late stage! Angled in, straightened off the pitch, genuine edge, Buttler had no chance
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, short, and pulled through square leg
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, fuller length, driven to short midwicket
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, worked through the leg side again
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, stands tall in defence, pushed to cover, Hales fields with a tumble
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, fuller length, attempted yorker, squeezes past bat and stumps
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, on the back foot, punched into the covers
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, worked off the hip to square leg
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, driven hard down the ground
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, outside off, cut through point, a languid lean of a stroke
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, very full, and clonked over the bowler's head, a half-hearted shot, but effective
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, chipped in the air, inches short of Morgan, diving in at short midwicket! A misread offcutter, and nearly the breakthrough
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, outside off, room to free the arms, and clumped into the covers
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, defended on the back foot
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, back-foot cut to cover
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, on the pads, looked a touch quicker and Hafeez was unable to nurdle it away
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, solid stride forward and drilled to cover
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, deflected into the gully off the back foot, good quick calling
Willey to Babar Azam, FOUR, bosh. Goodnight. Straight down the ground
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, pushed into the covers
Willey to Babar Azam, 1 run, on the toes, flicked to midwicket
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, defended on the back foot
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, defended once again, into space. Hafeez will not be hurried to three figures
Willey to Babar Azam, no run, on the back foot, worked back to the bowler who feigns a shy
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, outside off, worked through the covers
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, full length, a bottom-handed drive but can't connect properly
Woakes to Babar Azam, SIX, battered, on the up, over the ropes, and Babar picks the slower ball, out of the back of the hand, to club his way to a half century!
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, driven from deep in the crease
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, forward, poked into the covers
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, pushed to cover. Hafeez is determined not to put a foot wrong
Rashid to Babar Azam, 1 run, clipped to midwicket to bring Hafeez back onto strike ...
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 2 runs, tossed up, slapped over short midwicket! Just out of the reach of the fielder and as a consequence that will do!
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, clipped to midwicket to escape the strike. This could now end in a hurry...
Rashid to Babar Azam, SIX, smashed, on the up, straight over the ropes at long-off!
Rashid to Babar Azam, 2 runs, googly, but timed sweetly off the back foot through the covers
Rashid to Babar Azam, 1 run, on the pads, flicked to midwicket
Woakes to Babar Azam, no run, bouncer, ducked
Woakes to Babar Azam, 1 run, so, another single, and Hafeez is handed the honour of hitting the winning run ...
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, no run, not this time, defended out to point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez, 1 run, guided down to third man, and that is the victory!
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, FOUR, full and a touch wide and Roy gets out to lash it through the covers, positive intent from the off
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, draws his length back a touch, this zips through as Roy plays no stroke
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 2 runs, gets forward, check-drives this time, into a gap in the covers and gets a couple more
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, 1 run, pushes from the crease, inside-edged through backward square
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, slightly back of a length, in the channel and Hales lets it go
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, bit of width, Hales toe-ends a cut in the air down towards third man, could have gone awry but picks up a single to get off the mark
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, starts slightly short, tapped into the covers
Anwar Ali to Hales, FOUR, slides on to the pads, Hales clips it past the diving short fine leg and gets a boundary to his name
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, defends coming forwards around off stump
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, length ball, Hales shows it a straight bat
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, angled in and worked off the body short into the leg side
Anwar Ali to Hales, no run, good length on off stump, Hales shows it a straight bat in defence once again
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, no run, slower ball from Irfan, poked off the hips towards square
Mohammad Irfan to Roy, OUT, extra lift from a length and Roy spoons it to cover! The giant picks up his first victim, he punches the air in delight... Roy was pushing out in front of him, closing the face slightly and a thick leading edge flew towards the edge of the ring
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, bowling round the wicket, pitched up and defended coming forwards
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, length ball slightly wide of the stumps, left alone
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, pushed into the covers coming across
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, short outside off, 86mph and steered away with a horizontal bat down to third man
Anwar Ali to Root, no run, slightly short of a length and defended into the off side
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, pitched up and punched towards mid-on, Root takes on the fielder and although he has to detour around Anwar he gets in okay
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, goes back and runs one to third man
Anwar Ali to Root, 1 run, pitched up, Root skips out and opens the face, steers it past backward point
Anwar Ali to Hales, 1 run, full and straight, clipped off the toes through square leg
Anwar Ali to Root, FOUR, dropped short by Anwar and Root thwocks a pull away to the square-leg boundary with control to spare
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, leading edge, back to the bowler, he collapses like a felled oak... and drops it! He actually did well to fall right into its path, stuck out a big left paw and then grassed it, off the wrist
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, back and across and runs the ball to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Root, no run, jumps back and lets this one go
Mohammad Irfan to Root, 1 run, slammed in short, a snorter at 88mph and Root is fending blindly in front of his face, loops off the glove behind square - no catcher in. Actually, his bottom hand was off the bat when it hit the glove
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, short of a length, steered towards backward point
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, another fiery bumper from Irfan, the batsman collapses underneath
Zafar Gohar to Root, no run, pushed through outside off, goes back and sends a cut towards point
Zafar Gohar to Root, 1 run, pitched up and punched into a gap in the covers coming forwards
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 1 run, angled in with the arm from round the wicket, clipped off the legs behind square
Zafar Gohar to Root, 2 runs, drops a little short, Root pulls in the air over midwicket, shouts of "catch!" but it was well in front of the man in the deep and they get back for two
Zafar Gohar to Root, OUT, Root slogs a full toss straight to deep square leg! Wicket in his first over for Gohar, he'll bowl better balls for less reward in his international career, for sure, but they don't add descriptions in the scorebook. Root just shovelled it straight to Iftikhar a few yards in, took a good catch above his head
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 run, flat on the stumps, clipped past the dive of midwicket for a single
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, gets across and defends a length ball
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 wide, short and down the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, oof, Morgan is hit on the shoulder trying to pull a bouncer, he looks in a bit of discomfort initially but seems okay... Though the shot early, deflected off the upper arm into the helmet
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, 1 run, goes round the wicket, full on the legs, Morgan gets a scrape of bat on it
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, bangs in the short ball, at the batsman, who ducks sharpish
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, ooh, that's a beauty, a cutter from Irfan that beats the bat by a distance, bobbles low through to the keeper
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, nips one past the outside edge again! Gets some extravagant movement by rolling his fingers over it, superb stuff
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, over the wicket, pushed back down the track
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, tossed up and driven hard, in the air, straight back at the bowler... who doesn't lay a hand on it, though he does take a blow on the arm, the ball deflecting away through mid-on. A tough, tough chance, Gohar couldn't react in time
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 run, tossed up and worked through the leg side for a single
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 1 run, sliding on with the arm, Hales flicks it behind square on the leg side
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, leans into a forward defensive
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, short outside off, Hales reaches for a cut and was perilously close to nicking off
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, no run, unplayable! Short and rising towards the shoulder, moved late too, just past the gloves
Mohammad Irfan to Hales, 1 run, drops back and runs a single to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, shortish, lets this one through
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, bangs it in short and Morgan flinches out of the way
Mohammad Irfan to Morgan, no run, good length, 86mph around off stump, defended into the covers - excellent over from Irfan
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 1 run, pushed into a gap for one
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, flighted outside off, leans out and defends
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 run, angled in, played with the spin wide of mid-on
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run, length outside off, Hales chops it into the covers
Zafar Gohar to Hales, SIX, plants the front foot and plants him into the stands! The slog-sweep from Hales, utilising his long reach, absolutely hammered over the rope
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run, quicker ball from Gohar, nearly catches Hales unawares, jams the bat down in time
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, presses forward and defends solidly around off
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, FOUR, drops short and Morgan dismissively pulls it flat through backward square for four, looked comfortable with that
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, length outside off, comes forward and plays through the covers
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, slightly short, up towards 90mph, Hales reaches outside off and bottom-edges through to the keeper on the bounce
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, slower ball from Wahab, a cutter that Hales can only push back down the track
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, targeting the stumps, 87mph and played late, chopped into the ground towards backward point
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, tossed up, pushed back to the bowler
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, makes room to try and cut, gets an inside edge towards midwicket
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, pushed through flat on off stump, punched into the covers
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, good length, chopped towards cover from the crease
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, pushed through flat outside off, drops back and sends the ball to point - another dot
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, gets on to the front foot and drives, gets it past mid-off and they trot a single. Decent start from Iftikhar, though
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, pushed into the leg side, they steal a single... but the throw to the non-striker's end is a direct hit, with Morgan having to swerve round the bowler. It looked close but he was comfortably home in the end
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, slightly short, outside off, Hales reaches out and squirts one to third man
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, good length around the line of off, Morgan shows it a straight bat
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, slower ball from Wahab, just 66mph and Morgan is through the shot early, plays it on the full and in the air but lands short of mid-off
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, FOUR, short and heading down the leg side, Morgan helps it on its way down to fine leg with a swat of the bat
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, shortish, 87mph outside off, runs one more to third man
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, goes back and across and pushes into a gap
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, 1 leg bye, stays round the wicket, tossed up on the pads, deflects behind square
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, no run, angled in flat on the stumps, Morgan defends back down the track
Iftikhar Ahmed to Morgan, 1 run, slightly short, punched down the ground to long-off
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, FOUR, darted on the stumps and Hales crunches a sweep into the gap between deep midwicket and fine leg, that's four
Iftikhar Ahmed to Hales, no run, tossed up a little more, dabbed towards square leg
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, Morgan gets across to defend a 88mph delivery without fuss
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, good length, moves into line and defends again
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, slower ball, waits for it and clips one to deep square leg
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, short at the body, 88mph and jabbed away square on the leg side
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, full and wide of the off stump, Hales dabs it down to third man
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, no run, length around the line of off, Morgan bows his head over it in defence
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, floated up and clipped through midwicket to the man in the deep
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, pushed through outside off, turning away fractionally as Morgan slaps it through backward point
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, over the wicket, length ball, played with the turn to square leg
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, flighted, flicked off the toes behind square
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, oh, well bowled, beats everything! Morgan tried to drive through the off side, the ball pitched on middle and off, spun past the bat, past the timber and into the gloves
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, skidding on this time, clips the inside edge and runs behind square on the leg side
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, full outside off, guides this away behind point
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, straight delivery, just back of a length, defended to midwicket
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 wide, a bouncer over leg stump, Hales ducks, and it's too leg side (or short) for the umpire
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, driven into the ground and it bounces to backward point
Wahab Riaz to Hales, 1 run, tucks this one off his hip into square leg
Wahab Riaz to Morgan, 1 run, short outside off, another slower ball, not much pace to work with and it plops (I'm sure that's a term in the MCC coaching manual) through the off side
Wahab Riaz to Hales, no run, trying to guide this down to third man, angled across him, and the ball beats the top edge
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, slides in from round the wicket, cut into the off side
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, forward with bat and pad together
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, FOUR, brings out the reverse sweep, or club, as though it is an everyday shot - which for him it is - and swats it away from wide outside off through third man
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, fuller, driven to cover
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, edged! But doesn't carry to slip. Nice turn as Morgan comes forward, but it dies off the outside edge
Shoaib Malik to Hales, no run, a mighty appeal for a catch down the leg side! Malik and Sarfraz are convinced Hales has touched this. Umpire Raza says not out and they review. Clipped the thigh pad? Looks a good decision. And, yep, it stays onfield
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, FOUR, and he's met by a powerful reverse sweep from Morgan, a slightly fuller delivery than the one he struck last time, gets right over the top and it whistles along the ground
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, flicked from outside off to midwicket
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, appeal for lbw but that's struck him well outside the line, Morgan trying to flick it to the leg side
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, another huge shout! This has more going for it. Morgan back in his crease, sharp spin to take the pad but may have been going down leg. The review is gone, remember
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, 1 wide, more very sharp spin, this one goes down the leg side and is called wide
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, grip and spin, Morgan takes his bottom hand off the bat...worth a short leg? Pakistan need wickets
Zafar Gohar to Morgan, no run, full outside off, he thrusts his bat in front of the pad this time as he blocks...interesting over
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 2 leg byes, they are screaming for everything at the moment, Hales taken on the pad from round the wicket as he plays back, it gripped again, and deflects through fine leg...going down
Shoaib Malik to Hales, 1 run, plays back again, flicked through midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, full on middle and leg, tapped to the on side
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, defended to cover
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, full at off stump, small stride forward, block (leg slip has become slip for Morgan)
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 wide, shoves this one down the leg side, no contact with anything
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, full at the stumps, defended square into the off side
Zafar Gohar to Hales, no run, full and straight, pushed to the covers
Zafar Gohar to Hales, 2 runs, swept off the stumps and Irfan dives (or collapses) over it at short fine-leg
Zafar Gohar to Hales, OUT, done him! It was on the cards. Lovely bowling. Floated up full, Hales leans forward and prods in front of his pads, the outside edge carries low to slip
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, full at off stump, driven to cover
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, pushed up very full, blocked back down the pitch...plenty of noise in the field and the stands
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 2 byes, a beauty! Was that an edge? It's gone to third man. Big spin and turn. Defeats Taylor's edge as he prods forward, the keeper and slip
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, no run, round the wicket, full at off stump, defended
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 1 run, touch shorter, Morgan rocks back and drives through the covers
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, round the wicket, swept to deep square leg
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, 2 runs, gets this through the infield, a hint of width outside off, Morgan cuts through point but there's a boot on it near the boundary
Shoaib Malik to Morgan, OUT, and another! Lovely delivery, but Morgan has missed it by a long way. Playing back, it pitched on middle, turned sharply and struck off stump. Morgan comprehensively defeated
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, no run, plays back, deflects off the pad wide of leg slip
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, forward and defended
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, FOUR, another edge! Taylor also going back, more sharp spin - it goes square - takes the edge but Taylor's hands are soft it beats slip having not carried
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, you can feel the pressure, now he tries to sweep and doesn't make contact
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, FOUR, makes use of a low full toss outside leg stump, gets over the top and sweeps it wide of short fine-leg...Malik tries to get there, but slips on the boundary edge. Looks in a bit of pain
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 1 run, touch short, driven out to the cover sweeper
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, a play and a miss from Buttler, it was short and he went back to cut but there was extra bounce to beat the top edge
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, round the wicket, full outside off, driven down the ground
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, no run, missed stumping, Buttler came down the pitch, yorked himself, played over the top of the delivery, Sarfraz couldn't make the take. Buttler was a long way down
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, goes back and works a straight delivery with the spin to the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 wide, short, spins down the leg side, a rare poor delivery
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, sweeps this very hard off the stumps, sweetly connected, but almost straight to deep square
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 2 runs, full and a touch wide, Buttler comes forward and drives wide of the cover sweeper
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, gets over the ball and drives to long on
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, FOUR, well, that takes some guts, reverse sweeps and places it very well wide of backward point
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, terrific response from Gohar, floated up at off stump, spins past Buttler's edge as he lunges forward
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, that's even better! Unplayable. Pitched around middle and leg, rips past the outside edge and off stump. Jeepers.
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, FOUR, this is fantastic cricket, Buttler brings out the reverse sweep again, not quite as clean as the previous one but gets it finer and beats short third man
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 2 runs, adjusts his line, drifts full onto leg stump, clipped through midwicket and placed well enough for a second
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, drags this a little short, driven to deep cover
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, round the wicket, full outside off, eased down the ground to long on
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, uses his feet then whips to midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, down the pitch again, flicks this through the vacant short fine-leg area...the running will be quick with this pair
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, back into the crease again, plays with the spin behind square on the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, down the pitch, not quite to the ball, has to lunge at it as he defends
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, gets down and plays a neat paddle-sweep from outside leg
Azhar Ali to Taylor, 2 runs, dragged down short outside off, Taylor pulls hard through midwicket
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, short and wide, a fairly horrid ball, and a fairly horrid shot as Taylor swipes and misses
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, full at the stumps, driven back to the bowler
Azhar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, whipped from full outside off with the bottom hand towards mid-on
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 wide, pushed way down the leg side
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, think that was the googly, not sure Buttler picked it, went for the reverse sweep and gets a bottom edge to short third man
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, beats him again, a quick ball outside off which also turns, defeats Taylor's cut and he's angry with himself
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, staying round the wicket, opens the face and places to deep point
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, tries to work this into space on the leg side but finds midwicket
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 2 runs, a bottom-handed flick through midwicket, the ball was full outside off, good placement wide of the deep sweeper
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, SIX, that's a big blow! Enough of the tippy-tappy for Taylor, he comes down the pitch then goes with the spin high over deep midwicket with a pick-up shot
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 2 runs, now he works a flatter ball off the pads wide of leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, full, blocked
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, very full, dug out through the covers to the sweeper
Azhar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, ooh, that's a big full toss, but only costs a single as Taylor swats to deep midwicket
Azhar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, pitches this one, full and straight, flicked through midwicket to bring up a very brisk 50-runs stand
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, sharp spin! Rips away from the outside edge, but think Taylor pulled his bat inside the line this time
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, shorter, cut to backward point
Azhar Ali to Taylor, no run, short and wide, but Taylor cuts straight to cover
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, no run, full at middle and off, forward and defended to cover
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, no run, defended to the bowler
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, back of a length on off stump, neatly driven out to deep cover
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, on his toes, pinged to mid-off
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, tries to force this through the off side but he's cramped for room
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, full at the stumps, Taylor shuffling across the crease and defends
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, no run, round the wicket, a slower short ball, defeats Buttler as he goes for a square swat
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, nearly finds third man! Short of a length outside off, Buttler cuts and slices it just in front of the fielder...one bounce
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, short outside off, Taylor gets over the top and plays to deep point
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, opens the face and places this calmly through point to the sweeper
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, short, angled into the body, Taylor rolls his wrists on the pull down to long leg
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, no run, full at off stump, 76mph, defended to cover
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, tries to force through the off side, gets a thick inside edge which isn't a million miles from the stumps
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, short ball, 83mph, Taylor responds with a rasping pull which skims, one bounce, to fine leg
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, full outside off, 89mph, driven to the cover sweeper
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, no run, comes forward, nearly punches this in the air to cover but just stops himself from going too hard
Wahab Riaz to Taylor, 1 run, back of a length, smartly dropped into the off side and they steal a single that probably shouldn't have been on offer
Wahab Riaz to Buttler, 1 run, short, on leg stump, pulled to deep square
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, full at the stumps, driven firmly at cover
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, juicy full toss which is swung through the leg side but only a single to deep midwicket
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, appeal for lbw, Taylor flicking across the line of a full ball, heading leg side and may have hit it as well
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, another shout for lbw, Taylor on the sweep, pitched outside leg by looks of it
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, this one spins, defends square to the off side
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, goes back, takes the pad to the leg side
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, short of a length outside off, drops back and dabs to third man
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, 1 run, drops short again, at the body, Taylor swivels quickly to pull
Mohammad Irfan to Buttler, 1 run, fullish, mid-80s mph in the channel, Buttler presses out and steers through cover
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, FOUR, shouts of "catch!" as Taylor mistimes an aerial drive, his bottom hand coming off the bat... but it clears mid-ff and bounces away to the rope, brings the requirement under 50 now
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, FOUR, short and pulled hard - four more! Wahab dived at deep backward square but could only help the ball on to the boundary
Mohammad Irfan to Taylor, no run, length delivery, Taylor comes forward to block
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, tossed up, Buttler get out and punches through a gap
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 1 run, angled in and turned away through the leg side
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, drops back, waits for the ball to turn away from him, stabs through point
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, tossed up and patted away into the off side
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, FOUR, serves up a full toss and Taylor bunts it low past mid-on, it has the legs to outrun long-off for another boundary
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, looped up on off stump, leans into a forward defensive
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, pushed through and steered square off the back foot
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, SIX, full toss, Taylor gives it the big 'un and charges out to slap it through mid-off... in fact, he lands it right on the rope to bring up his fifty with a six!
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, round the wicket, tossed up on the stumps, dabbed into the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, no run, pushed across the right-hander, runs it to backward point
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, flighted, on leg stump, goes down low to sweep behind square
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, on leg stump, tapped into a gap at square leg
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, slightly short, Buttler chops hard into the the covers but a diving stop prevents any runs
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, no run, pushed back down the track
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 1 run, drops back and gets his cut through the infield this time
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, no run, drops back on off stump but doesn't quite connect properly
Zafar Gohar to Taylor, 1 run, drifting towards leg stump, gets down low to sweep, towards deep backward square... who then underarms a throw towards a team-mate who wasn't looking and Taylor briefly thinks about coming back for two
Zafar Gohar to Buttler, 2 runs, on off stump, reverse swept through backward point for a couple more
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, FOUR, Taylor sweeps, top-edges towards deep square leg... who misses it completely! Gohar is signalling he couldn't see it in the lights as he ran in, the ball landed near his foot and bounced away for four
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, outside leg and Taylor gets some glove on a sweep to loop it up and over leg slip this time
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, tossed up on the stumps and swept fine for one more
Shoaib Malik to Taylor, 1 run, Taylor skips out and nurdles into the leg side
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 2 runs, short and glanced off the hips from back in the crease - they scurry two more and that's the 100 stand between these two, looking like a match-winner
Shoaib Malik to Buttler, 1 run, on the stumps, flicked leg side for one more
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, 1 run, round the wicket, nudged through square leg
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, tossed up and blocked back on the leg side
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, 1 run, flat offbreak down leg, flicked away to deep backward square
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, no run, turned to leg from the crease
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, no run, leg-stump line, hits the pads and rolls away
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, no run, flighted, Buttler waits on it and taps back down the track, no longer in any hurry
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, length on the stumps and flicked behind square
Anwar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, drops short, sits up nicely to be pulled through midwicket for one
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, shortish, over the top of off, Taylor closes the face and nudges square to the leg side
Anwar Ali to Buttler, 1 run, back of a length outside off, Buttler dabs it down to third man - 200 up for England, they're getting there without breaking sweat now
Anwar Ali to Taylor, 1 run, shortish, 78mph outside off, Taylor glides another single to third man
Anwar Ali to Buttler, no run, gets across and pushes gently into the off side
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, length outside leg stump, tapped away
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, 2 runs, goes down on one knee very early, waits for the ball to come on and flicks a paddle shot over his shoulder for a couple
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, over the wicket, pushed through and blocked
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, no run, flat on the stumps, defended again
Iftikhar Ahmed to Taylor, 1 run, shuffles forward, clips back to the bowler's right... a misfield gives Taylor one more
Iftikhar Ahmed to Buttler, SIX, there it is, crashed over deep midwicket for the winning hit! Buttler saunters out and clubs the ball well beyond the rope to finish unbeaten on 49, as England win by six wickets to go 2-1 up in the series
Steyn to RG Sharma,. no run,. just short of length with some away movement well outside off, Rohit chops it to point
Steyn to RG Sharma,. no run,. on good length outside off, some outswing again and Rohit leaves this time
Steyn to RG Sharma,. no run,. on the stumps now at 134kph, Rohit flicks it tentatively in the air and it falls well short of midwicket
Steyn to RG Sharma,. 1 run,. tough further towards leg stump and Rohit flicks it much better this time, and there's a deep midwicket to keep it to one
Steyn to Dhawan,. no run,. little back of length around off stump, Dhawan stays back and defends close to himself
Steyn to Dhawan,. 1 run,. bit too full outside off, Dhawan drives beautifully through the covers and the mid-off fielder dives to his right to save three
Rabada to Dhawan,. 1 run,. starts on the pads, Dhawan tucks it easily to the midwicket region for one
Rabada to RG Sharma,. no run,. good bounce for that one at 140kph, Rohit came forward a bit and defended the back of length ball outside off
Rabada to RG Sharma,. FOUR,. on the stumps now and Rohit flicks it away in the air over midwicket. There's no deep midwicket this time and Rohit has connected enough to send it for four
Rabada to RG Sharma,. 1 run,. short of length outside off, Rohit pokes at it away from the body to help it to third man
Rabada to Dhawan,. 1 run,. short of length around off, Dhawan stays back and gets a thick edge to third man for one
Rabada to RG Sharma,. no run,. short ball goes towards the leg side, Rohit got into a position to hook but didn't go ahead with the shot and it goes just over him. Not called a wide
Morris to Dhawan,. no run,. touch short of length around off, Dhawan helps it into the covers
Morris to Dhawan,. no run,. shorter and closer to off, Dhawan doesn't move his feet at all and swings and misses
Morris to Dhawan,. 1 run,. width on the off side and Dhawan slams it through the covers for mid-off to keep it to one again
Morris to RG Sharma,. FOUR,. short fine leg is in, he gets a short ball and pulls it fine on the leg side for four pretty easily
Morris to RG Sharma,. FOUR,. again, and that's just over short fine leg now, Rabada fielder there. Rohit pulled the short ball again, didn't get enough height and Rabada jumped but it just escaped him
Morris to RG Sharma,. no run,. right on the off stump now, Rohit defends it back with a straight bat
Rabada to Dhawan,. 1 run,. little bit of width on the off side and Dhawan guides it late to third man for one
Rabada to RG Sharma,. 1 run,. back of length on off again, Rohit defended it late to beat backward point and wanted one straightaway. Dhawan wanted to wait and watch if backward point got a hand to it or not and they eventually go for the single
Rabada to Dhawan,. 1 run,. short ball towards the ribs, Dhawan pulls it awkwardly to square leg. Oh, the fielder gets a direct hit and they get one more
Rabada to RG Sharma,. FOUR,. another short ball, another pull, another four from Rohit! This time he makes sure it's far from short fine leg and sent it flying, to the fielder's left
Rabada to RG Sharma,. no run,. back of length towards middle and leg, he defends on the leg side
Rabada to RG Sharma,. 1 run,. 143.4kph, short again and now Rohit goes on his toes to tuck it along the ground behind square on leg and keeps strike
Morris to RG Sharma,. no run,. back of length outside off, Rohit defends with soft hands into the covers and says no. Dhawan wanted one but was sent back
Morris to RG Sharma,. no run,. touch fuller and Rohit drives it nicely into the covers, straight to the fielder
Morris to RG Sharma,. 1 run,. back of length, bit of width outside off and he slices it late to third man for one
Morris to Dhawan,. 1 run,. bit full around off, Dhawan pushes it down towards mid-off and AB has a shy at the stumps, misses and Dhawan makes it
Morris to RG Sharma,. OUT,. flicked uppishly again and this time he's given a catch to midwicket! It was angling in towards the pads, Rohit flicked and found du Plessis, who tumbled to his right for a low catch. RG Sharma c du Plessis b Morris 21 (21m 19b 4x4 0x6) SR: 110.52
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. how well he plays that flick! The ball was headed for the stumps and Kohli tucked it off the pads towards long leg to get off the mark
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. short ball to welcome Kohli, he stays back and hops to keep the ball down with a defence
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. drifts towards the pads, Kohli glances fine and it goes straight to short fine leg
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. another mix up wasn't far away - Kohli drove the ball straight down the ground, Rabada got a leg to it and the ball popped up which made Kohli call for one, but Dhawan didn't want the one. Kohli also goes back by the time mid-off goes straight and stops it
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. comes forward a bit and defends the ball into the covers
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. Kohli gets a glove and that went just wide of a diving QdK who ran to his left! The short ball put Kohli in an awkward position, he went ahead with the pull and got a glove which sent the ball in the air, QdK tried his best but was just wide
Rabada to Dhawan,. no run,. back of length outside off, Dhawan cuts and finds point
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. length delivery towards off stump, Kohli defends it back
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. touch wider outside off, Kohli takes a tiny step forward and pushes into the covers
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. back of length with some width, he defends it late to find one wide of backward point
Morris to Dhawan,. no run,. around the off stump from back of length, Dhawan defends off the back foot
Morris to Dhawan,. no run,. length delivery around the off stump, he defends into the covers
Morris to Dhawan,. no run,. touch fuller on the off stump, Dhawan gets a chance to drive this time but finds cover
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. 141.7kph, bit of inswing towards the off stump, Kohli defends it solidly with a short forward stride
Rabada to Kohli,. 2 runs,. just wide of point! Kohli slashed at the widish delivery outside off, sent it in the air and Miller dived to his left at point but it was just wide
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. pulls the short ball fine, and Morris gets to the ball in no time to stop it with his right hand
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. some width outside off again, he cuts it wide of point for one this time
Rabada to Dhawan,. 1 wide,. goes short and wide on the off side, called a wide
Rabada to Dhawan,. OUT,. so many catches flying around and now QdK has taken a stunner! Finally Rabada's short ball gets him a wicket - it was on the leg side and Dhawan pulled awkwardly and got the ball to pop up fine on the leg side. QdK took two steps before flying to his right and took it with only one hand!. S Dhawan c de Kock b Rabada 7 (36m 15b 0x4 0x6) SR: 46.66
Rabada to Rahane,. no run,. length delivery on the off side and Rahane defends it back
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. back of length around the off stump, Kohli tucks it to the leg side
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. bit of inswing towards the off stump, Kohli covers his stumps and defends it back solidly
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. some room on the off side now, Kohli punches it to extra cover
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. slower ball at 121kph, it was short of length and cutting in, Kohli waited and defended to the leg side for a single
Morris to Rahane,. no run,. brings it in with the angle towards the off stump, Rahane defends with hard hands and gets a thick edge towards point
Morris to Rahane,. 1 wide,. angled down the leg side now, Rahane shoulders his arms early enough to let it go
Morris to Rahane,. 1 run,. angles a short ball in, Rahane tucks it off his pads towards square leg to get off the mark
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. bit of room with the scrambled seam on the off side, Rahane pushes it into the covers for one
Steyn to Kohli,. no run,. short of length around off again, Kohli stays back and punches it on the off side
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. back of length again, Kohli stays back and turns it towards deep square leg for one
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. just a little bit of width on off and Rahane cuts it late to third man
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. hint of outswing outside off and Kohli also guides it to third man for one
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. shortish on the off side and Rahane swats it to the leg side between mid-on and midwicket for one. Didn't get the middle of the bat though
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. starts with a low full toss on the stumps, driven down to long-on for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. fullish on off stump, driven into the covers and AB dives to his right to save one, the crowd loves it!
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. around off again and he pushes with soft hands this time for a quick one
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. full and outside leg, sweeps it fine and straight to short fine leg
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. full on leg stump, driven down the ground to long-on for one
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. back of length towards the stumps, helped to the leg side for one
Steyn to Rahane,. no run,. short ball, Rahane pulls and gets hardly any bat on that, just a bit of bottom edge and the ball lands on the pitch. Maybe beaten by pace a little bit
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. outside off now and Rahane is happy to guide to third man for one
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. some width outside off again, Kohli also taps it to third man for one
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. short ball is pulled behind square and it falls wide and short of Morris at fine leg
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. goes back towards off and tucks the ball from outside off to midwicket for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. flighted towards the leg stump, Kohli comes down and drives it to long on
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. pushes the fullish delivery on off into the covers with soft hands for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. SIX,. how well that was timed! Kohli comes down the ground to take the ball on the full, punches it down and in the air and checks the follow through, and it goes all the way for six over long off!
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. some turn now around off as Kohli closes the face of the bat to leg and gets an outside edge to point
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. drives this delivery down the ground for one
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. towards middle and leg now and it's helped to deep midwicket for one
Steyn to Rahane,. FOUR,. there's width, it was shortish too and Rahane flayed it on the off side between cover point and backward point for four! Beautifully timed to find the gap
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. shorter and closer to the off stump, taps it to third man easily
Steyn to Kohli,. FOUR,. back of length outside off, Kohli stays back and punches it authoritatively wide of cover point for a powerful four. What a shot!
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. touch back of length outside off, he defends with soft hands towards point for a quick single and they steal one
Steyn to Rahane,. 1 run,. short ball with good bounce towards Rahane's head, he pulls it easily to fine leg for one
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. 139.3kph, back of length just outside off, now Kohli taps it to third man for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 2 runs,. full and outside off, he drives it nicely towards deep cover in the gap and gets two
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. fullish on the leg stump now and it's tucked to square leg for one
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. full around off and driven straight to cover
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. goes back in the crease, looking to work it to leg but the ball straightens and takes a thick outside edge
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. bit too short now and Rahane cuts it off the back foot to sweeper cover for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. towards middle and leg and Kohli tucks it to square leg for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. 92.5kph, flattish around off, and it's pushed into the covers
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. keeps a touch low with turn outside off and it's sliced to cover point
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. looks for a single by pushing the ball into the covers but there's no time
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. much straighter  and flatter, and Kohli defends it back
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. SIX,. long hop, it's a googly and Kohli rocks back to unleash a pull and he clears deep midwicket! Replays show the ball landed right on the boundary rope, just wide a of a diving Phangiso so it's a six
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. good length now around middle and it's pushed down to long on for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. on length on the middle stump, Kohli puts his front foot forward and turns it to long on
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. flighted and full outside off, driven nicely to deep cover for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. shorter and wider outside off, Kohli goes on the back foot but finds the bottom of the edge while slamming it thought the covers but gets one
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. good turn towards middle from leg, gets Rahane's outside edge towards point
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. bit too full outside off and it's driven off the front foot to sweeper cover
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. flatter delivery with some turn, Kohli went back to help it to leg but the ball came slower than he expected and ended up defending it
Imran Tahir to Rahane,. 1 run,. flighted and full on off, flicked to deep midwicket for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. FOUR,. outside off with turn, Kohli lets it turn and then helped it with a late touch to the third man boundary for four
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. fuller outside off, driven down to log off for one
Imran Tahir to Rahane,. no run,. googly turning in from outside off, Rahane defends off the front foot and stops the ball as it's rolling towards the stumps
Imran Tahir to Rahane,. 1 run,. googly towards leg stump now and Rahane helps it along behind square leg for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. flighted and full on leg, Kohli finds midwicket and says no for the single
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. presses forward and defends the length ball into the covers
Phangiso to Rahane,. 2 runs,. bit of flight outside off, Rahane lets it turn and cuts off the back foot to deep point for two
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. another front-foot defence from Rahane for the length delivery
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. straight-bat defence now off the front foot on the off side
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. just a bit on middle and leg, Rahane sweeps against the turn and finds short fine leg
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. bit too full on middle stump and it's turned down to long on for one, and that's India's 100
Behardien to Rahane,. no run,. a dibbly-dobbly outside off and it's driven to cover
Behardien to Rahane,. 1 run,. back of length just outside off, worked down to long on for one
Behardien to Kohli,. 2 runs,. too wide outside off, Kohli frees his arms with a big swing and a misfield from Amla at backward point gets them two
Behardien to Kohli,. 1 run,. just a bit of room now, Kohli helps the ball late to short third man and Rahane responds well for one
Behardien to Rahane,. no run,. bit of mix up as Rahane gets an bottom edge while driving the ball and it goes over Behardien, Rahane comes out of the crease, Kohli says no as AB dives at mid off and throws it back in no time
Behardien to Rahane,. no run,. almost in the block hole outside off and it's helped to backward point
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. he reaches fifty with a single - pushed the ball down the ground to mid-off and took off immediately. He put in the dive too but there was no direct hit. Celebrates rather aggressively by punching his chest with his left hand and raises his bat
Morris to Rahane,. 1 run,. angling in towards the pads and it's flicked in the air to fine leg
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. bit of width outside off, Kohli chops it late and wide of deep third man for one
Morris to Rahane,. FOUR,. shuffles a bit towards off stump for the ball on leg, and he flicks it dangerously very fine on the leg side for four as Morris grimaces
Morris to Rahane,. FOUR,. on the other side now - got some width outside off and Rahane played at it away from the body to help it fine and beats a diving Steyn at third man
Morris to Rahane,. no run,. delivers from wide of the crease now to get some angle and Rahane defends it on off
Behardien to Kohli,. 1 run,. pretty straight and it's flicked down to long on for one
Behardien to Rahane,. no run,. touch back of length outside off and Rahane helps it to short third man, sent back by Kohli for the single
Behardien to Rahane,. 1 run,. errs towards the pads and it's worked off the legs to fine leg
Behardien to Kohli,. 2 runs,. short of length legcutter around middle and off and it's tucked to the leg side in the gap and Kohli calls for two
Behardien to Kohli,. 1 run,. towards the pads again and it's flicked through midwicket for another single
Behardien to Rahane,. 1 run,. attempts a yorker and the full toss on leg is flicked to deep square leg
Morris to Rahane,. no run,. length delivery on the off stump, pushed down to mid on
Morris to Rahane,. FOUR,. full and outside off, and what a handsome drive from Rahane! Puts his front foot forward, big back lift, gets on top of the ball and creams it through the covers even though there wasn't much room
Morris to Rahane,. 1 wide,. errs down the leg side for a wide
Morris to Rahane,. no run,. angling in towards off, driven down to mid on now
Morris to Rahane,. 1 run,. touch short of length outside off, he plays it late and delicately to help it fine on the off side
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. just around the off stump and Kohli stops it with a defence
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. fullish outside off and driven nicely to sweeper cover, seven from that over
Rabada to Kohli,. 2 runs,. yes, it's a short ball towards leg stump, Kohli pulls it late while moving towards off and gets it fine before Tahir cuts it in
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. shortish outside off now, and he helps it off the back foot to third man for one
Rabada to Rahane,. 1 run,. some room outside off, Rahane pokes his bat out and sends it to third man
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. fullish outside off, Kohli defends it back with a straight bat
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. back of length towards off, Kohli goes across a bit to defend it to leg and calls for one. But it's not far from Rabada's right and Rahane says no
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. bangs it in at 144.4kph, Kohli pulls it nicely to deep midwicket for one
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. comes down the track and helps the ball from off to midwicket and goes back in the crease
Morris to Kohli,. no run
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. beaten outside off! This one didn't nip in from outside off, maybe Kohli expected it and didn't move his feet. Only poked and missed
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. angled towards middle and leg now, worked off the pads for one
Morris to Rahane,. 1 run,. strolls down and drives the ball through the covers for one, and that's the 100 partnership
Morris to Kohli,. 1 wide,. short ball outside off, Kohli leaves and it's called a wide
Morris to Kohli,. no run,. fullish now outside off and it's pushed down to mid off
Phangiso to Rahane,. no run,. on length on middle and leg, it's helped to midwicket
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. well outside off now and it's driven to sweeper cover for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. walks down the track and drives the fullish ball to long on
Phangiso to Rahane,. 1 run,. bit too full on middle and leg again, driven down to long on again
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. on middle stump now and Kohli defends it back
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. beaten with turn outside off and Kohli sticks his bat out but the ball turns away past the edge
Steyn to Rahane,. OUT,. and the change works - Steyn has got him caught behind! There was some room, Rahane went for the shot without moving his feet much and the ball stayed a tad low to take the bottom edge and QdK took it with both hands, Steyn is pumped after a long time. AM Rahane c de Kock b Steyn 45 (79m 53b 4x4 0x6) SR: 84.90
Steyn to Raina,. no run,. length delivery outside off, Raina defends in the covers
Steyn to Raina,. 1 run,. he's off the mark, what a relief for him, as he taps the ball from outside off to third man for one
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. oh, nearly a mix up and close to a run out! Kohli pushed the ball into the covers and called for one straightaway but Raina responded a little late, Behardien threw the ball to the keeper's but Raina made it as it wasn't a direct hit
Steyn to Raina,. 1 run,. short ball now around off and Raina tucks it to leg for one
Steyn to Kohli,. 2 runs,. some outswing outside off, Kohli drives it nicely off the front foot through the covers and Tahir cuts it in but they take two
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. turning in from off, helped with the turn to leg for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. falls short as Kohli pushes the flat delivery uppishly back to Tahir, but it doesn't carry
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 2 runs,. drives the ball square with the turn and his top hand comes off, but they take two
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. turning away from outside off and he taps it late to short third man
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run
Imran Tahir to Raina,. no run,. turning in from well outside off, Raina presses forward to take it on the pad for a stifled appeal but it struck him outside off
Steyn to Kohli,. no run,. back of length outside off, slapped down to mid off
Steyn to Kohli,. no run,. moves towards the ball outside off and pushes it to point
Steyn to Kohli,. no run,. just back of length outside off, Kohli punches on off but gets a bottom edge
Steyn to Kohli,. FOUR,. low full toss and it's merely pushed down the ground by Kohli, but such is the timing that it beats mid on
Steyn to Kohli,. 2 runs,. outside off, Kohli cuts as he ges some room and there's a misfield at backward point to give them two
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. towards the pads now and Kohli flicks it nicely to fine leg for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. fullish on middle and leg, pushes it down easily to long on
Imran Tahir to Raina,. no run,. turns it in a little bit, Raina defends to the leg side
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. much fuller now and it's driven down to long on for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 2 runs,. flat outside off and Kohli cuts it wide of short third man for two more
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. fullish on off and it's turned straight to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. towards off and middle, pushed down to long on and he keeps strike
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. length delivery outside off, Kohli defends tentatively and gets a thick outside edge for one
Rabada to Raina,. 1 run,. angling across outside off, pushed into the covers for one
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. on good length close to off, Kohli covers his stumps and defends it back
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. full and swinging in towards off and middle, flicked away to deep midwicket for one
Rabada to Raina,. 1 run,. short ball, Raina didn't look good while pulling it but manages to go off strike with a single to deep backward square leg
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. doesn't middle the drive down the ground but takes off for the single, takes on AB at mid-off and dives again to make it in as AB misses the direct hit. He has been stealing singles consistenly in this sapping heat
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. full on middle, pushed down to long on for one
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. googly well outside off, Raina lets it turn away and helps it to short third man and Kohli responds for the quick single
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. bit slower on the off stump, Kohli presses forward and defends to backward point
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 leg bye,. sweeps against the turn from leg, gets some pad and there was a slight mix up after both batsmen took a couple of steps and eventually managed one
Imran Tahir to Raina,. no run,. defends the turning length ball to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. fullish around off, Raina drives it uppishly and just clears a diving cover fielder, wasn't too far from him
Behardien to Raina,. 1 wide,. starts off with a wide outside off as Raina swings and misses
Behardien to Raina,. 1 run,. towards the pads and it's tucked behind square on leg
Behardien to Kohli,. 1 run,. back of length around off, pushed down to long on for one
Behardien to Raina,. 1 run,. fullish outside off now, driven with the angle to long off for one more
Behardien to Kohli,. 1 run,. short ball outside off, Kohli waits and pulls with some power but doesn't time it properly. Still gets one past midwicket
Behardien to Raina,. 1 run,. pretty full on the stumps and it's worked to long on
Behardien to Kohli,. 1 run,. fullish around off, rolls his wrists over this one to send it to long on for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. full on middle stump, worked down the ground to long on
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. flighted well outside off, driven off the front foot to sweeper cover for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. pretty full on off, pushed down to mid off
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. some turn outside off, Kohli waits and helps it to short third man
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. FOUR,. the flight gives Kohli time and he hammers that down the ground with a big follow through, was in the air fleetingly as it went past Tahir, for four
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. tucks this one to midwicket and he wants a quick single, very risky run and luckily for him it wasn't a direct hit at the non-striker's end so he makes it. Du Plessis had put in a dive to his left from midwicket and if he had hit, Kohli was way outside
Rabada to Kohli,. no run
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 wide,. way down the leg side, Kohli pulls and misses and it's a wide
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. short ball angled nicely towards Kohli now, he gets into an awkward position on the back foot and the ball lobs in the air off the top edge but falls short of Rabada
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. in the air again, Kohli pulls the short ball and it falls well short of deep midwicket who's running in
Rabada to Raina,. 1 wide,. short ball on the leg side, Raina ducked almost as soon as the ball was delivered
Rabada to Raina,. 1 wide,. well down the leg side now, not a short ball and Raina leaves for another wide
Rabada to Raina,. no run,. tries a yorker and the low full toss on leg is helped to midwicket
Rabada to Raina,. FOUR,. high and handsome! Pitched up to Raina on the stumps, he clears his front foot a bit and lofts it absolutely straight down the ground for a one-bounce four, landed just inside
Rabada to Raina,. no run,. he's expecting the short ball, goes in the crease and shuffles to middle to tuck the back of length ball to leg for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. fullish on middle and leg, clipped to deep midwicket for one
Phangiso to Raina,. 1 run,. comes down for the leg side slog, doesn't get enough and it rolls away to the leg side
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. fullish on middle and off, pushed back to the bowler
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. length delivery around off, pushed into the covers now
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. touch shorter and wider, cuts off the back foot to point
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. some turn from middle towards off, Kohli defends with a thick outside edge
Rabada to Raina,. no run,. lot of width outside off, Raina swings and misses
Rabada to Raina,. 1 run,. short ball towards Raina's head, he pulls somehow in the air but it falls safe near backward square leg
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. shuffles a bit towards off to tuck it past a diving midwicket for one, they thought of the second too
Rabada to Raina,. no run,. on length on the off stump, he defends it back
Rabada to Raina,. SIX,. full again to Raina and he lofts it straight down the ground, hardly had to move his feet and sent it easily  to long-on, where Rayudu takes the catch beyond the boundary
Rabada to Raina,. no run,. goes on the back foot to defend the ball to leg now
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. shortish around off, bit of turn and Kohli pulls off the back foot and finds midwicket
Phangiso to Kohli,. SIX,. charges down the ground and sends it hight, just over a jumping long-on to reach his hundred, the crowd erupts! Kohli flaunts his biceps one by one to the dressing room and takes a helmet full of sweat off his head. Gets a hug from Raina
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. pushes the fullish delivery down to long off now
Phangiso to Raina,. 1 wide,. sends this one down leg for a wide now
Phangiso to Raina,. no run,. length delivery on off, tucked to midwicket now
Phangiso to Raina,. 1 run,. helps it with the turn to deep backward square for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. no run,. flattish on the stumps and he defends it to leg
Morris to Raina,. 2 runs,. another shot goes just over a fielder - Raina swats this back of length ball just over backward square leg for two
Morris to Raina,. FOUR,. angling in and a full ball, Raina drives it straight down the ground with a straight bat and drills it for four
Morris to Raina,. 1 run,. slightly outside off now and it's driven through the covers for one
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. takes a stance well outside leg, the ball follows him and he helps it to fine leg for one
Morris to Raina,. no run,. back of length around the off stump, tucked to the leg side
Morris to Raina,. 1 run,. bangs in the short ball outside off, Raina taps it in the air towards third man
Phangiso to Raina,. no run,. comes down the track, it's a full toss down leg and Rains finds short fine leg
Phangiso to Raina,. 1 run,. comes down again and pushes the ball down the ground for one
Phangiso to Kohli,. 1 run,. Kohli gives the charge for the fullish delivery, lofts it down and it bounces well before Steyn at long on
Phangiso to Raina,. 1 run,. makes room now, Phangiso bowls on middle and it's pushed to long off
Phangiso to Kohli,. FOUR,. just a bit of width, Kohli goes on the back foot and slices it with such timing that it bisects backward point and short third man for four
Phangiso to Kohli,. FOUR,. dances down to take it on the full and hammers that absolutely straight down the ground over the umpire for a one-bounce four
Morris to Raina,. 3 runs,. makes room to drive the ball inside out and the ball lands in the gap behind square on the off side. They take two, and then Kohli, who must be tired in these conditions, pushes Raina for the third as Amla sends a wayward throw
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. Kohli's stance is well outside leg and pretty open, Morris bowls at his toes and he gets some bat as the ball goes between his legs
Morris to Raina,. 1 run,. full toss towards the waist, pushed down to long on
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. full toss to Kohli too, flicked to deep midwicket for one
Morris to Raina,. 1 wide,. that's way down the leg side for a wide
Morris to Raina,. 1 run,. fullish outside off, pushed down easily to long off
Morris to Kohli,. 1 run,. tries a yorker and Kohli helps the low full toss to long on now. He looks tired now, just walking around for the singles
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. towards the pads and it's flicked to deep midwicket
Imran Tahir to Raina,. no run,. flat on the off stump, pushed back to the bowler
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. the flighted full toss is helped to long on for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. SIX,. charges down and Kohli sends that flying over midwicket in the gap! Looked like a googly so Kohli went with the turn and the umpires are checking if it's four or six. It's landed on the rope, so six it is
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 leg bye,. flatter and shorter around off, Kohli paddles it with a premeditated shot fine on leg
Imran Tahir to Raina,. no run,. sharp turn into the batsman, Raina presses forward and defends
Steyn to Kohli,. no run,. just outside off, pretty full, and Kohli swings and misses
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. back of length now and it's slapped back down the ground, long-on runs to his left to keep it in
Steyn to Raina,. FOUR,. he makes room for the straight delivery and swats it straight back close to the non-striker and he gets enough on that to get four
Steyn to Raina,. no run,. it's the short ball and Raina defends it awkwardly to square leg
Steyn to Raina,. 1 run,. towards the pads and it's tucked to the leg side for one
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. bouncer to Kohli and he pulls it to deep midwicket to keep strike
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. comes down the track, Tahir pitches it wide outside off and Kohli rolls his wrists over this one to long on
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 2 runs,. Raina goes for the slog, maybe it was a googly and the top edge went very high, but in no man's land down the ground. Tahir runs backwards, AB runs from midwicket towards mid-off but it goes through his hands
Imran Tahir to Raina,. no run,. bit of flight on middle and leg, helped to midwicket
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. touch wider outside off, he cuts to point for one
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. short and flat, swatted down the ground to long on
Imran Tahir to Raina,. 1 run,. flat on off stump, pushed down to long on and that's Raina's fifty. He needed that more than anyone else after two consecutive ducks
Steyn to Raina,. no run,. 145kph, wants to heave on the leg side but it's a short and wide delivery on off, he swings and misses
Steyn to Raina,. 1 run,. makes room this time for the short delivery on the stumps, sends it flying and it falls well short of deep cover
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. back of length outside off, flays on the off side for one
Steyn to Raina,. 2 runs,. the pull sends the ball in the air, Phangiso dives to his right with a full stretch and gets both his hands to the ball but can't hold on to it and then dives again to keep the ball in
Steyn to Raina,. 1 wide,. Raina makes room, Steyn sends it wide outside off and it's called a wide. Steyn is unhappy with that
Steyn to Raina,. OUT,. back of length, pulled straight to midwicket for an easy catch! A crucial fifty from Raina comes to an end because of Steyn with a shortish ball. SK Raina c de Villiers b Steyn 53 (87m 52b 3x4 1x6) SR: 101.92
Steyn to Dhoni,. FOUR,. he gets a short ball first ball and pulls it off the middle, and sends it wide of fine leg for four. The crowd is going mad
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. no run,. flattish delivery on middle stump, Kohli tries a paddle sweep and takes the ball on the left shoulder
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. SIX,. he goes the conventional way with a stride down the ground and lofts that straight down, absolutely creamed it for six
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. 1 run,. now slog sweep against the turn to deep midwicket for one
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,. no run,. takes a step down and pushes the ball back to Tahir
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,. 1 run,. flighted and low full toss outside off, driven down the ground to long off
Imran Tahir to Kohli,. (no ball) 1 run,. high full toss on leg and Kohli pulls to deep midwicket, he's cramping up badly and it's called no ball for height
Imran Tahir to Dhoni,. 1 run,. tries a big shot down the ground, doesn't middle it and it falls not too far from long off, they settle for one
Rabada to Dhoni,. 1 run,. back of length and angling in, helped to the leg side for one
Rabada to Kohli,. 1 run,. makes room and drives the length delivery to deep cover
Rabada to Dhoni,. no run,. charges down for a heave and misses it completely
Rabada to Dhoni,. 1 wide,. that's pretty wide down the leg side now
Rabada to Dhoni,. no run,. back of length and pulled, he doesn't middle it and finds midwicket
Rabada to Dhoni,. 1 run,. goes deep in the crease towards off and pulls the back of length ball from off to midwicket
Rabada to Kohli,. no run,. he looks to pull by making room, the short ball follows him and goes over him as he goes down on a knee, that's a legitimate delivery
Steyn to Dhoni,. 1 run,. back of length outside off, he wants to hammer it but doesn't time it to perfection and finds deep midwicket
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. makes room and flicks the fullish delivery to leg, they take one and Kohli has to duck under the ball while keeping his bat in at the non-striker's end
Steyn to Dhoni,. 1 run,. outside off and punched to deep cover for one now
Steyn to Kohli,. 1 run,. full delivery outside off, driven through the covers now for one
Steyn to Dhoni,. 1 run,. back of length outside off with room, Dhoni goes hard at it and it goes high on the off side, falls short of deep cover as Morris runs in
Steyn to Kohli,. no run,. a bouncer to end the over and Kohli sways out of the line
Rabada to Dhoni,. 1 leg bye,. full and angling in, Dhoni opens up and heaves, doesn't connect and takes it on the back leg for a leg bye
Rabada to Kohli,. OUT,. that's the end of Kohli, he's caught behind for 138! Shortish ball going down leg and he pulled, got a faint edge and QdK took it easily. V Kohli c de Kock b Rabada 138 (202m 140b 6x4 5x6) SR: 98.57
Rabada to Harbhajan Singh,. OUT,. oh Harbhajan is bowled down the leg side! He wanted to tuck the ball to leg with the angle, and the ball deflected off his pads to the stumps. The umpires are checking for a no ball, and Rabada has overstepped here, nothing behind the line when his heel lands. Oh, hello! He's still been given out. Can't figure out the reason why that's not a no ball and the TV commentators are confused too. Harbhajan Singh  b Rabada 0 (2m 1b 0x4 0x6) SR: 0.00
Rabada to Patel,. 2 runs,. back of length outside off, there's room and Axar cuts off the back foot wide of third man for two
Rabada to Patel,. 1 run,. angling in to Axar, chips it down the ground to long on
Rabada to Dhoni,. 1 run,. Dhoni opens up for the back of length ball and clips to leg for one
Steyn to Dhoni,. 1 run,. Dhoni connects this time with a slog but there's a fielder at deep midwicket for one
Steyn to Patel,. no run,. back of length outside off with the angle, Axar swings and misses
Steyn to Patel,. 1 run,. much wider outside off, Axar flays the ball to sweeper cover
Steyn to Dhoni,. 2 runs,. full delivery is driven down the ground to long on, they are strangely coming back for the second because the ball went straight to long. But Steyn doesn't collect the ball at bowler's end and they actually get two
Steyn to Dhoni,. OUT,. makes room for the short ball, flays it down the ground and finds mid off. Excellent over this is from Steyn. MS Dhoni c de Villiers b Steyn 15 (28m 16b 1x4 0x6) SR: 93.75
Steyn to Kumar,. OUT,. a wicket to end the innings too! Bhuvi hardly got any bat on the short ball on off stump, Steyn collected the ball and ran him out at the non-striker's end. B Kumar run out 0 (1m 1b 0x4 0x6) SR: 0.00
Willey to Azhar Ali,1 run,full outside off and a neat push square of the wicket wide of point
Willey to Babar Azam,no run,full on middle and off, defended back down the pitch
Willey to Babar Azam,no run,pushed across outside off, 81mph, left alone
Willey to Babar Azam,no run,on leg stump but he gets away with it as Azam flicks it off his pads and Rashid makes a diving stop at short fine-leg
Willey to Babar Azam,no run,back outside off, full length, defended towards mid-off
Willey to Babar Azam,no run,good line, full on off stump, 78mph, carefully defended with bat and pad together...a steady opening over
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 wide,starts down the leg side, a hint of swing, Azhar misses his flick
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,nicely bowled, adjusts his line to full outside off, draws Azhar forward and he plays a flat-foot drive and almost gets an edge
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,down the leg side again, but this time Azhar had moved quite away across his crease the umpire lets it go
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,tucked off the pads to square leg
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 run,fuller on middle and leg, nudged just to the right of mid-on
Topley to Babar Azam,2 runs,full outside leg, not quite the right line, deflects off the pad fine of the keeper but the slow outfield ensures it pulls up well before the boundary...in fact, a small edge too
Topley to Babar Azam,no run,outside off, driven firmly to mid-off's left
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,back of a length outside off, left alone
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,driven square off a thickish outside edge towards point
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,gets across outside off and whips a full delivery into midwicket
Willey to Azhar Ali,FOUR,nice drive this time, gets well forward into a full ball and pierces the gap between cover and mid-off...enough power to overcome the outfield, too
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,drags the length back a touch, pushed to mid-off
Willey to Azhar Ali,1 run,back of a length outside off, punched from the back foot to the left of mid-off so he keeps the strike
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,nearly draws an edge, angled across outside off, Azhar plays at it and the ball goes on to beat him
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,left alone this time
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 run,oh dear, Topley's had a bit of a shocker there! The ball was punched back to him, nothing was happening, but he went to throw it back to the keeper and the ball got stuck in his hand and he ended up winging it into space on the leg side to give away a run. A little embarrassing
Topley to Babar Azam,1 run,clipped wide of mid-on
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,full outside off, left alone
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,good delivery, full at off stump, finds the outside edge but it dies in front of second slip who makes a sharp save
Willey to Babar Azam,2 runs,width outside off and cut through the off side, slow outfield into play
Willey to Babar Azam,1 run,worked off the pads through square leg
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,driven back to the bowler without much timing
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,almost a drag on as he goes for an expansive drive, the ball doesn't come on and a thick inside edge dribbles just wide of the stumps
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,defended off the stumps
Willey to Azhar Ali,no run,back of a length, aims to flick it through the on side but just gets taken on the thigh pad
Topley to Babar Azam,FOUR,that's a strong drive, a stride forward and although he wasn't to the pitch he just strikes clean thorugh the line
Topley to Babar Azam,1 run,not so full this time, dropped into the off side and his Azhar's has gone flying somehow...a collision between him and Topley as the bowler ran across to get to the ball
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 run,tucked into the leg side
Topley to Babar Azam,1 run,flicked down to long leg
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,better delivery, full and straight, squirts off a thick outside edge into the point area
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,very full, on the popping crease, driven off the bottom of the bat towards mid-off...Azhar struggling a little
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,full outside off, left alone
Woakes to Babar Azam,1 run,works a straight delivery behind square on the leg side with a flick of his wrists
Woakes to Azhar Ali,SIX,blimey! That's come out of nowhere. He takes a step down the pitch and then crunches a full delivery straight down the ground over long off
Woakes to Azhar Ali,no run,stays in his crease this time, works a full ball from outside off towards mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali,no run,short of a length outside off, defended into the covers
Woakes to Azhar Ali,1 run,more strong wrist work, taking a delivery from quite wide outside off and placing to just wide of mid-on
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 run,angled down to third man
Topley to Babar Azam,no run,slower ball, full and wide outside off, can't get it through the off side
Topley to Babar Azam,1 run,width again, this time he is able to cut it wide of third man although it's just a single
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 run,shorter delivery, Azhar plays it off the back foot, rides it down to third man again
Topley to Babar Azam,no run,full at off stump, defended square to point
Topley to Babar Azam,FOUR,that's a sweet straight drive, along the ground this time, very correct from Azam as he leans into a full delivery and sends it straight of mid-off
Woakes to Azhar Ali,1 run,short of a length, gets inside the line and tucks it down to long leg
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,full at straight, flicked to square leg
Woakes to Babar Azam,1 wide,a bouncer, loops off the surface, Azam ducks and the umpire calls wide much to the chagrin of Woakes
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,sweetly time with a bottom-handed flick as he whips it off the stumps to mid-on
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,a punchy drive off the back foot which finds cover
Woakes to Babar Azam,2 runs,finds the gap this time, another neat drive as he drives on the up through the covers
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,can't take advantage of some width as he cracks this one straight at cover
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,full at middle, 80mph, defended back to Topley
Topley to Azhar Ali,1 run,opens the face and runs this down to third man
Topley to Babar Azam,no run,slips out as a full toss but it doesn't cost him as it is flicked straight to short fine-leg
Topley to Babar Azam,1 run,slower ball, full outside off, presses forward and opens the face to third man
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,leans back on the drive, finds point
Topley to Azhar Ali,no run,down the pitch and gets beaten as Topley pulls his length back, the ball climbs over the top edge
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,full outside off, pushed to the covers, and a scream of 'no'
Woakes to Babar Azam,no run,shorter outside off, played from the back foot this time
Woakes to Babar Azam,1 run,shuffles across his stumps and flicks a length delivery from outside off to deep square
Woakes to Azhar Ali,no run,a bouncer outside off, Azhar sways out of the line, this time it's okay for the umpire
Woakes to Azhar Ali,1 run,fuller again, slides off a thick outside edge to third man
Woakes to Babar Azam,OUT,breakthrough! And it's the short ball which works. Entices a hook from this time, he had to drag it from outside off, took mostly top edge and Rashid steadied himself under the catch at long leg
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,starts on leg stump, flicked into the deep on the on side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,2 runs,on off stump, a little short, he has plenty of time to place it off the back foot through the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,touch fuller, hint of turn, played with an open face to point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,beats him as he tries to cut away a delivery that skidded on and only just missed off stump
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,2 runs,chips this over mid-on, he came down the track but wasn't to the pitch. Still went through with his shot, dragged it a little, but had legs to get over the infield
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,pushed to the covers
Woakes to Azhar Ali,no run,full outside off, pushed square to backwards point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,angled into the pads, flicked to long leg
Woakes to Azhar Ali,1 run,skips across the crease, almost has his feet off the ground as he flicks this to the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,goes for the pull, takes the pad and loops towards Root at slip
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,comes forward, defends down by his feet, looked for a single but the ball was quickly closed down
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,short outside off, he steps back and cuts through the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,this spins a decent amount, but quite slowly and Hafeez flicks to mid-on
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,tossed up much more, is actually a low full toss, driven to long-off
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,played down the ground again
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,pushed carefully into the off side
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,full at leg stump, swept strongly behind square
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,full outside off, driven with a closed face into the leg side wide of mid-on
Woakes to Azhar Ali,1 run,short of a length at off stump, Woakes has mixed things up quite effectively so far, worked into the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,FOUR,this full delivery is drilled over the off side, confident shot from Hafeez who didn't bother with much footwork
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,straighter delivery, aims to work to the on side and Woakes gets across
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,comes forward and defends, slides off the face to point
Woakes to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,pushed square into the off side again, point is quickly onto it to prevent the single
Rashid to Azhar Ali,no run,uses his feet, nicely bowled with a touch more air, pushes to the off side
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,short this time, spins away outside off, cut to deep cover
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,FOUR,just over mid-on! Hafeez wanting to attack Rashid again, goes for the lofted option, the bat twisted in his hands a touch, didn't quite get the elevation he wanted but just enough to beat the man on the edge of the circle
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,SIX,this one has the distance! Down the pitch again, swings it very high into the air and it has the distance to land over the rope at long-on although not by much
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,dragged down outside off, flat-batted to deep cover
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,full toss which dips down the leg side, tickled fine of short fine-leg
Ali to Azhar Ali,no run,over the wicket, tossed up on the stumps, tucked to square leg
Ali to Azhar Ali,1 run,goes back in the crease and flicks the ball a little finer for one
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,tossed up on middle and off, comes forward and pushes back to the bowler, briefly in the air
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,flighted, outside off, driven through the covers
Ali to Azhar Ali,1 run,gets across his stumps and taps one more through mid-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,Hafeez scuttles out and clips to leg, sends it straight to midwicket
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,pushed through outside off, drops back and chops through point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,SIX,into the stands this time! Hafeez slaps Rashid upside his head again, walloping a full delivery over wide long-on... Picked the googly, I think
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,drags it down a little, pushed back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,tossed up outside off, driven through the covers
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,pushed through on middle and leg, Azhar clips through midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,floated up on the stumps, Hafeez gets down low to sweep but picks out the fielder
Ali to Azhar Ali,1 run,on the stumps, dabbed into a gap at midwicket and they hustle one
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,length ball, spinning in, clips the inside edge and runs square
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,flighted around off stump, blocked back to the bowler's left
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,down the leg side, just a little tickle of bat on it and the ball runs fine
Ali to Azhar Ali,1 run,presses forward and pushes a driven through mid-on
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,there's a clatter of timber, Buttler makes a half-hearted appeal... The ball went into and out of his gloves on to the stumps but was Hafeez's back foot in? Yes, it was indeedy
Rashid to Azhar Ali,1 run,tossed up and punched through the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,flighted outside off, tapped towards mid-off along the ground
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,OUT,calamity! Hafeez has run out his captain...! Steered the ball straight to backward point and then called Azhar through, but he was never in the picture, he turns and stops as if to remonstrate, swipes the air with his bat. To be fair, he didn't respond to the initial call and was then up the creek
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,gets forward and drives wide of the bowler for one
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,spinning away outside off, dabbed through backward point
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,on the stumps, whipped to leg and Safraz races through for one more
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,pushed into another gap for a busy single
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,beats the bat outside off, Hafeez attempting to cut off the back foot
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,FOUR,Sarfraz is up and motoring, smoothly powering a sweep through backward square leg - 100 up for Pakistan
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,on the stumps, turned into the leg side but midwicket seizes on it
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,pushes the ball back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,spinning away outside off, dabbed square
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,turned into a gap
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,2 runs,pushed through outside off, Sarfraz drops back and plays a very late cut for a couple
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,tossed up on middle and leg, nudged into the off side
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,gives it some air outside off, driven into the covers - tighter over from Rashid
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,shout of "catch!" from Moeen as Hafeez chips into a gap on the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,FOUR,superbly done from Sarfraz, gets lower than Flo Rida Ft. T-Pain and sweeps hard from outside off off stump through backward square leg
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,on the stumps, worked to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,2 runs,driven, uppish and is that a drop? Well, hard to call it a chance but Woakes, I think, got fingertips to it diving forward at extra cover
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,punched back down the track
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,tossed up and swept hard, bounces out towards deep midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,length ball outside off, dabbed towards backward point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,tossed up and punched into the covers coming forwards
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,tossed up and punched into the covers
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,nicely bowled, flighted on off stump and turning to beat Hafeez's forward prod
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,gets into line and dabs it away - another dot for Rashid
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,and that's a rare maiden for him, tossing up the googly to complete the over
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,nudged off the legs
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,goes down to try and sweep, misses the ball and takes it on the thigh - maybe a little slower from Moeen
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,on the stumps, turned to leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,comes forward and drives to the man in the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,flighted, worked across the line, in front of midwicket and they pinch one
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,angled in with the arm, blocked back to the bowler
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,on the stumps, tucked towards midwicket
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,tossed up, goes for the slog-sweep and miscues it along the ground towards long-on
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,FOUR,tossed up, nice and juicy outside off, Sarfraz takes a big bit, getting his front foot out and clubbing past deep extra cover
Rashid to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,tip and run, towards mid-on, the ball is underarmed at the stumps but missed and Sarfraz had made good ground
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,pushed through slightly wide, Taylor makes a diving stop at backward point
Rashid to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,width to cut again but Taylor pounces on it in almost identical fashion
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,tossed up on the stumps and pushed towards mid-on
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,closes the face, gets a leading edge back towards the bowler
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,outside off, cut to backward point
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,gets down low and sweeps one more through backward square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,can't get this one away
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,tossed up on middle and off, pushed back to the bowler - tight few overs from England, nine runs off the last four
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 wide,starts with a wide down the leg side
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,goes across and nudges a length ball to leg
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,on the hips, tucked away through backward square
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,Willey continues to bowl a leg-stump line, clipped away for one more
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,on the legs, nudged square to the man in the deep
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,pushed across the batsman, room to free the arms and slap one behind point
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,a change of pace deceives Hafeez, he tries to pull and it bops him in the gut
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,gets down and sweeps one more through backward square leg
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,pushed back to the bowler
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,tossed up on the stumps, can't get the ball past midwicket
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,tossed up outside off, driven firmly but straight to the man set back in the covers
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,popped back towards the bowler again
Ali to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,angled in and turned around the corner for a single to finish the over
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez,1 run,length ball around the line of off, pushed in front of square
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 leg bye,low full toss from Willey, the cat-like Sarfraz is low in the crease and into the sweep early, picks out backward square but runs anyway, a direct hit would have been close... Think there was a vain lbw appeal, too, but must have been glove/bat on it first
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez,no run,length  ball, dabbed into the covers
Willey to Mohammad Hafeez,OUT,top-edged out towards deep square leg... and taken! Hafeez's slow wind down comes to its conclusion with a tame flick into the deep, miscued it high to the fielder
Willey to Sarfraz Ahmed,1 run,back of a length, tucked away through square
Willey to Shoaib Malik,1 run,goes across his stumps and flicks his first ball away for a run
Ali to Shoaib Malik,1 run,punched back past the bowler to long-on
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,no run,worked into the leg side
Ali to Sarfraz Ahmed,OUT,comes charging down the pitch, slogs to leg - and picks out the fielder in the deep! Sarfraz has a brain fart and hands his wicket to Moeen! He was going so well but tried to force it, just after losing his partner
Ali to Shoaib Malik,no run,pushed through flat on off stump, drops back and cut
Ali to Shoaib Malik,no run,flighted, spinning in to hit the inside edge as Malik props forward
Ali to Shoaib Malik,no run,length ball, tapped square from the crease
Willey to Mohammad Rizwan,1 run,pitched up outside off and pushed through the covers into the deep
Willey to Shoaib Malik,no run,back of a length on leg stump, misses with a flick
Willey to Shoaib Malik,no run,pushed into the covers coming forwards
Willey to Shoaib Malik,no run,Willey joining the dots here, as Malik punches a fullish ball to extra cover
Willey to Shoaib Malik,1 run,short ball on the stumps, pulled flat through square leg
Willey to Mohammad Rizwan,no run,full around off stump, slower delivery and Rizwan pats it to cover
Ali to Shoaib Malik,1 run,pushed to the right of the bowler for one
Ali to Mohammad Rizwan,OUT,another run-out, Rizwan wandering down the pitch! Either he didn't call or Malik didn't hear it because he wasn't moving, Rizwan realised far too late and Roy was able to scoop the ball up at midwicket, underarm to Buttler, who completed the dismissal
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed,no run,spinning down the leg side, gets a leading edge
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed,no run,turned into the leg side
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed,no run,angled in with the arm, pushed back
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed,no run,Moeen darts the ball on the stumps, Iftikhar blocks - just one off the over, to go with the run-out
Willey to Shoaib Malik,no run,stays in the crease and blocks
Willey to Shoaib Malik,1 run,short of a length, drops back and nudged through square
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed,1 run,dabbed into a gap, Iftikhar is off the mark
Willey to Shoaib Malik,1 run,slanted across the right-hander from over the wicket, glided to third man
Willey to Iftikhar Ahmed,1 run,goes full around the line of off, driven with a statesmanlike air through mid-off
Willey to Shoaib Malik,no run,slower ball from Willey, hits the toe of the bat as he props forward
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed,1 run,on the stumps, flicked into the leg side
Ali to Shoaib Malik,no run,pushed through on off stump, blocked back to the bowler
Ali to Shoaib Malik,no run,length ball on off, closes the face and turns it to midwicket
Ali to Shoaib Malik,no run,slower, floated up outside off, leans out and defends
Ali to Shoaib Malik,1 run,spinning in off a length, goes back and whips it away to deep midwicket for one
Ali to Iftikhar Ahmed,no run,bit of dip, gripping to spin in on off, Iftikhar shows it a straight bat
Woakes to Shoaib Malik,no run,full and straight, driven to mid-n
Woakes to Shoaib Malik,1 run,there's an appeal for lbw by Woakes as this nips back, an off-cutter, and is deflected to third man. Pad first? Hard to tell. Seems to be flap of the front pad. No review used. Going over in any event
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed,no run,clipped to midwicket
Woakes to Iftikhar Ahmed,OUT,and another! Falling in a heap here. Another short-ball wicket for Woakes as Iftikhar goes to pull, gets elevation but not the distance and picks out deep square-leg.
Woakes to Shoaib Malik,1 run,tight to off stump, dabbed through backward point
Woakes to Anwar Ali,no run,full at straight, driven to mid-off
Rashid to Shoaib Malik,1 run,steps back to leg and drives out to deep cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali,no run,appeal for lbw, full around leg stump, Anwar probs forward, probably not straightening enough...might have pitched outside leg, too
Rashid to Anwar Ali,no run,wide outside off, left alone
Rashid to Anwar Ali,2 runs,pushed square into the off side and a rare fumble in the field from England by Woakes coming across from point
Rashid to Anwar Ali,no run,another appeal for lbw and this time England use their review. A googly from Rashid, nice spin to beat the inside edge. Has it done too much? Unless there's an edge. Well, hitting in line with off stump is umpire's call and it's also going over
Rashid to Anwar Ali,1 run,full and pushed down the ground
Woakes to Anwar Ali,no run,full at the stumps, played back to Woakes in his followthrough
Woakes to Anwar Ali,no run,short ball, over off stump, Anwar ducks
Woakes to Anwar Ali,no run,full outside off, might have been another cutter, patted to the off side
Woakes to Anwar Ali,1 run,flicked into the leg side
Woakes to Shoaib Malik,1 run,short delivery dug in, rises fairly gently off the surface, worked around the corner behind square
Woakes to Anwar Ali,1 run,push-and-run towards mid-on, it was a bit of a scamper but safe enough
Rashid to Anwar Ali,1 run,driven into the covers
Rashid to Shoaib Malik,1 run,driven away square through point, but Moeen is quickly around at deep cover
Rashid to Anwar Ali,no run,flicks a full delivery to midwicket
Rashid to Anwar Ali,no run,was that a missed stumping?? Yes, it was. Buttler can't glove it cleanly as Anwar plays over the top of a full delivery. Won't help Buttler's confidence. Anwar was out of his crease for quite some time.
Rashid to Anwar Ali,no run,beaten by one which spins, nice bowling
Rashid to Anwar Ali,1 run,driven down the ground
Topley to Anwar Ali,no run,full outside off, played to backward point
Topley to Anwar Ali,no run,shorter delivery, again he can't beat backward point as he opens the face
Topley to Anwar Ali,OUT,this has gone miles in the air and is safely taken! Another bit of pretty brainless cricket from Pakistan as Anwar tries to launch this back towards Dubai, it's a back-of-a-length ball and it gets way underneath it. Moeen does well to settle under a steepler
Topley to Shoaib Malik,no run,full at the stumps, tries to work to the on side but gets it towards mid-off instead
Topley to Shoaib Malik,1 run,that's a pretty ugly heave into the leg side, swinging across the line of a full delivery
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,full and straight, blocked to the off side
Woakes to Shoaib Malik,1 run,angled down to third man
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,1 run,a length delivery, runs it off the edge to third man
Woakes to Shoaib Malik,1 run,and another down to third man...it's about all Pakistan can do for the next five or six overs
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,no run,short outside off, leaves it alone
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,no run,fuller, comes forward and pushes to backward point, Roy very quickly in
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,no run,a short-of-a-length cutter which is prodded into the off side
Topley to Shoaib Malik,1 run,angled down to third man
Topley to Wahab Riaz,OUT,another run out! Waqar not impressed in the dressing room. It was just nudged into midwicket, Malik came charging up the pitch, it's a swift pick-up by Jordan and a direct hit on the turn. Excellent work, but what has happened to Pakistan?
Topley to Wahab Riaz,1 run,flicked off the pads to long leg
Topley to Zafar Gohar,no run,nearly run-out No. 4! He digs out a yorker towards mid-on, Wahab charges out of his crease and has to dive to get back in
Topley to Zafar Gohar,no run,slower ball outside off which he nearly spoons to cover
Topley to Zafar Gohar,no run,tapped to the off side
Willey to Wahab Riaz,1 run,low full toss which is squirted down to third man
Willey to Zafar Gohar,no run,worked from offstump to midwicket
Willey to Zafar Gohar,1 run,full outside off, heaved down the ground to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz,1 run,driven through the off side
Willey to Zafar Gohar,1 run,low full toss, aiming for the yorker, can only get swung to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz,1 run,full on the pads, clipped to deep midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,excellent yorker, dug out back to the bowler
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,gets beaten by another slower one outside off as he tries to cut
Topley to Wahab Riaz,1 run,driven square through the off side
Topley to Zafar Gohar,1 run,dropped into the off side, a tight single...could have been close with a direct hit. Probably out with a hit!
Topley to Wahab Riaz,2 runs,a controlled edge down to third man, he comes back for a dicey second and has to dive to make his crease...the ball bounce awkwardly at Buttler who couldn't gather it. Might have had time to break the stumps
Topley to Wahab Riaz,1 run,driven to deep cover
Willey to Wahab Riaz,1 run,cut firmly out to deep point
Willey to Zafar Gohar,1 run,swings a low full toss in the air over square leg, deep midwicket gets around, they wanted a second for a moment but settled at one
Willey to Wahab Riaz,no run,full outside off, he drives over the top of it
Willey to Wahab Riaz,1 run,deflected down to third man
Willey to Zafar Gohar,SIX,a boundary! And it's the full lot. Terrific shot on debut, gets good leverage on a full ball, stays in the crease, swings through the line over long-on
Willey to Zafar Gohar,no run,misses out on a low full toss this time, clipped to midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,dabbed to backward point
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,another cutter, beats him on the inside edge as he aims to the leg side...actually, a back-of-the-hand slower ball
Topley to Wahab Riaz,1 run,on the pads, flicked to deep midwicket
Topley to Zafar Gohar,2 runs,good bit of invention now from Gohar, steps across his crease and scoops a full toss behind square...he doesn't lack for confidence
Topley to Zafar Gohar,1 run,slices this in the air, down the ground, but it lands short of long off
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,another slower one outside off, he misses his dab
Woakes to Zafar Gohar,2 runs,lovely strike and, I think, superb fielding...lofted straight down the ground over mid-off, but it doesn't skip across the outfield and gets flicked back
Woakes to Zafar Gohar,no run,swing and a miss to a full ball outside off
Woakes to Zafar Gohar,OUT,gone this time, swinging to leg against a back-of-a-length delivery and gets a top edge through to Buttler. Been a short-ball day for Woakes
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan,no run,full outside off, driven to cover
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan,no run,yorker, dug out to the off side
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan,no run,full and straight, manages to keep it out with a nudge to mid-on
Topley to Wahab Riaz,no run,full and straight, aims to swing down the ground, slices as the bat turns and lobs towards mid-off but he declines the single
Topley to Wahab Riaz,SIX,he's connected this time! Almost a slog-sweep, goes down on one knee and picks it from outside off with a mighty swing over deep midwicket
Topley to Wahab Riaz,1 run,dropped! A blemish from England. He heaves this into the leg side, picks out deep square where Root shells one that he would normally swallow
Topley to Mohammad Irfan,no run,that came out wrong, a loopy full toss slower ball which Irfan lets through to the keeper then questions if it should have been a no-ball. Waist height to Irfan is a beaming to other players
Topley to Mohammad Irfan,no run,full outside off, jabbed to point...crowd cheering the blocks from Irfan
Topley to Mohammad Irfan,no run,a straight, low full toss which is carefully pushed to cover so he survives the over
Willey to Wahab Riaz,no run,a yorker which is driven firmly to cover who is on the edge of the circle
Willey to Wahab Riaz,no run,top edge, but falls into space! And in the end it's a dot ball. Back of a length, heaves to the leg side, takes a top edge and doesn't carry to long on
Willey to Wahab Riaz,no run,cracked straight down the ground this time and the run is declined again
Willey to Wahab Riaz,SIX,this time he gets it! Short of a length, Wahab keeps swinging hard and he muscles it over deep midwicket to bring up Pakistan's 200
Willey to Wahab Riaz,no run,full on the pads, deflects into the leg side, straight back to the bowler so can't get the single
Willey to Wahab Riaz,1 run,works a low full toss into the vacant midwicket area and trots the single
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,SIX,another fantastic strike! Not the best delivery from Woakes, a driveable length outside off, and it gets absolutely hammered, flat over long-off
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,no run,he's given lbw but reviews straight away. Hit it? Yes, massive inside edge into the back pad so this will be overturned
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,no run,he's given lbw again! And he reviews again. Wasn't an instant review this time. This one might be missing leg. Hit the back foot full, but very leg-side. Missing leg stump. He survives again. What scenes
Woakes to Wahab Riaz,1 run,now he tries to scoop, gets across outside off and flicks it behind square on the leg side
Woakes to Mohammad Irfan,OUT,cleaned up! Full, straight, Irfan swung and Woakes hit off stump...he finishes with four wickets, so eight in his last two innings
Kumar to de Kock,no run,gives some width outside off and QdK drives into the covers
Kumar to de Kock,no run,back of length and swinging in, pushed to the leg side
Kumar to de Kock,2 runs,touch fuller outside off and he drives it nicely in the gap through the covers for two
Kumar to de Kock,FOUR,back of length outside off, there's room too and QdK square drives it in the gap between point and cover point for four
Kumar to de Kock,no run,some room outside off again, he punches it down to mid off
Kumar to de Kock,no run,back of length outside off and he defends it back to the bowler
MM Sharma to Amla,1 run,nice outswing outside off, Amla runs it down to third man for one
MM Sharma to de Kock,2 runs,angles it into the pads and QdK tucks it away nicely towards deep square leg before Harbhajan cuts it in
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,full outside off, driven hard and straight to Dhawan at cover
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,fullish outside off again, he drives it into the covers now with another high follow through
MM Sharma to de Kock,FOUR,there's some room outside off, QdK goes hard at it and flays it through the off side and in the air for a cracking four
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,fullish outside off and it's pushed down to mid off now
Kumar to Amla,no run,well outside the off stump and Amla lets it go
Kumar to Amla,1 run,coming in slightly towards Amla from back of length, Amla drives it late to third man
Kumar to de Kock,1 run,nearly missed three dismissals on one ball - QdK first chipped the back of length ball over Amla, and the two batsmen had a little mix up by the time Rohit at mid on dived to stop it. He missed a direct hit at bowler's end and the ball missed at the keeper's end too, where Amla dragged his bat in
Kumar to Amla,1 run,Amla's bat comes down late for the incoming delivery and the edge goes near the stumps, and behind square on the leg side
Kumar to de Kock,no run,length delivery outside off, driven into the covers
Kumar to de Kock,no run,much straighter on the off stump and he defends it back
MM Sharma to Amla,no run,touch short of length outside off, pushed in the covers by Amla
MM Sharma to Amla,no run,fuller on the off side, driven down the ground to mid on and he didn't time it too well
MM Sharma to Amla,1 run,angling in and Amla tucks it to midwicket for a quick single as Dhawan dives to save it
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,some room on the off side, QdK drives and finds covers point
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,bangs in the bouncer towards QdK as he ducks under it
MM Sharma to de Kock,1 run,angled towards middle stump now, QdK pushes it just wide of mid on for a quick single
Kumar to de Kock,FOUR,he gets room on the off side and unleashes a beautiful square drive to pierce the gap between cover point and cover for a four
Kumar to de Kock,2 runs,it's a free hit so QdK pulls the short ball over square leg for two more
Kumar to de Kock,no run,towards the pads now and it's tucked to square leg off the legs
Kumar to de Kock,1 run,better line - on the off stump now and QdK clips it just wide of midwicket for one
Kumar to Amla,no run,not much room outside off, on length and Amla doesn't move his feet and defends to point
Kumar to Amla,3 runs,around the off stump on back of length and Amla clips it to the leg side off the back foot, a little tumble in the deep gives them three and 15 from the over
MM Sharma to Amla,OUT,pulled to the leg side and straight to midwicket, the crowd has come alive! It was short around off, Amla got into position nicely to pull and Dhawan had to jump just a bit to catch with both hands
MM Sharma to du Plessis,no run,back of length outside off, drives it into the covers
MM Sharma to du Plessis,no run,punched down towards mid-off past Mohit and they decide against the single with a fielder there
MM Sharma to du Plessis,no run,short of length outside off again, punched to cover point
MM Sharma to du Plessis,1 run,taps the ball late towards backward point where Axar stops it with his left hand but there's enough time for a run
MM Sharma to de Kock,FOUR,walks across the stumps a little and Mohit angles it in, QdK clips it fine on the leg side and gets four more. It's his fifth four in six overs
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,punches the back of length ball from outside off back to the bowler who gets a hand to it
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,touch fuller and closer to the stumps, Faf defends it on the off side
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,defends the straighter delivery back down the ground towards mid off
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,pretty full outside off and it's driven straight to cover
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,a bouncer again outside off and Faf lets this one go too
Kumar to du Plessis,1 run,just around the off stump and it's punched to mid off for a quick single
MM Sharma to du Plessis,FOUR,the top edge goes high and right over the keeper's head for four! Short ball coming in and Faf pulled, the edge flew high and back in no man's land
MM Sharma to du Plessis,1 run,short ball on the off side, Faf taps it wide of backward point for one
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,first goes towards off and then makes some room to cut it firmly to backward point
MM Sharma to de Kock,FOUR,slower ball is an offcutter on back of length, QdK whips it by pivoting on the back foot and gets four more
MM Sharma to de Kock,no run,goes for a big swing on the leg side for the length delivery outside off, swings and misses this time
MM Sharma to de Kock,2 runs,bit too full this time around off and QdK punches it down the ground past mid off. Rohit chases and puts in a dive to cut it in and keep it to two
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,138kph, back of length around off, pushed down the ground to mid off
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,angles it in towards the off stump, Faf defends on the off side
Kumar to du Plessis,no run,138.6kph, bouncer towards the stumps and Faf lets it go
Kumar to du Plessis,1 run,comes down the track and slaps the length delivery to mid off for a quick single
Kumar to de Kock,no run,a bouncer to QdK too, from around the wicket and he leaves it alone too
Kumar to de Kock,SIX,from wide of the crease and angling in, QdK sees the short ball and pulls it away using the pace of the ball to the square-leg boundary for six!
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,no run,turns it into the batsman, Faf looks to defend it to leg and the ball lobs off the waist before Dhoni catches it. The stadium appeals and umpire Ravi doesn't move
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,no run,comes down a step and clips the ball to leg
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,no run,pushes the ball to off and gets a thick edge onto the front pad
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,1 run,comes out of the crease again to take it on the full and drives wide of midwicket for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Kock,no run,bit of flight outside off and QdK defends it back
Harbhajan Singh to de Kock,no run,good turn outside the off stump, QdK waited for it to turn away but it did too much and went out of his reach
Patel to du Plessis,no run,swing and a miss first ball as Faf drives outside off a hint of turn beats him
Patel to du Plessis,no run,comes on the front foot now and defends the ball back
Patel to du Plessis,no run,the turn surprises Faf a little as he comes down to push it back and the ball takes the outside edge to point
Patel to du Plessis,no run
Patel to du Plessis,1 run,comes down the track now and drives to long off for one
Patel to de Kock,1 run,takes a step down and clips the ball to leg for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Kock,1 run,some turn outside off as QdK pushes away from the body and gets a thick outside edge
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,1 run,pretty full and flighted around off, driven down to long on for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Kock,OUT,Harbhajan was on the prowl and Jinxy the Cat takes it at second slip! Nicely tossed up outside off, QdK is tempted for the drive and he goes for it too, edging the ball to slips
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,nice flight towards middle and leg, pushed to the leg side with the turn and he's off the mark
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,no run,tossed up around off again, Faf waits and defends it back
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,no run,takes a step down and takes it on the full to clip it to midwicket
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,sharp turn outside off from back of length, AB made room and cut it off the back foot
Patel to du Plessis,1 run,touch fuller and Faf cuts it too towards sweeper cover
Patel to de Villiers,no run,full on off and it's pushed back to the bowler
Patel to de Villiers,no run,marginally shorter and AB drives it back, but can't connect well
Patel to de Villiers,no run,right on the stumps this time and AB blocks it back
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,comes down and across to cover the stumps, and clips it to long on for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,negates the turn by coming down and drives to long on easily
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,no run,sharp turn from outside off, there was bounce too and Faf was beaten! He waited on the back foot, the ball came in and struck him on the waist as the crowd "ooohs"
Harbhajan Singh to du Plessis,1 run,comes down the track this time and clips to long on for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,pretty slow through the air with turn, AB presses forward and takes it on the pad
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,charges down to take it on the full and AB slams it back and that hits Faf straight on the right elbow as he turned back to get away from the ball
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,comes down the track again and pushes the ball wide of Faf to long on for one
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,back of length outside off and AB cuts it fiercely to sweeper cover for one
Patel to du Plessis,2 runs,around off stump and Faf paddles it fine and high on the leg side and he hares back for the second
Patel to du Plessis,2 runs,goes back this time to tuck the ball with the angle to deep square leg for two more
Patel to du Plessis,OUT,big appeal and the finger goes up! Faf barely moved his feet for the length delivery outside off, it turned away sharply as Faf poked his bat and Dhoni went up as soon as he pouched it. Faf shows his displeasure by raising his right arm and says something too. Replays show there was some noise when the ball went past the bat, Snicko also shows there was something
Patel to Miller,no run,puts his front foot forward outside leg and the ball turns away further, takes it on the pad
Patel to Miller,no run,covers the stumps and defends the ball back to Axar
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,turning in from off, AB clips it with the turn behind square on leg
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,no run,Miller tries to sweep the ball against the turn from around off and doesn't get anywhere close to the ball
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,no run,defends the flighted length delivery from on off with soft hands
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,1 run,more towards middle now and he sweeps to get off the mark
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,2 runs,takes a step down and AB slams it back again, not too far from Miller and they take two by the time Rayudu slides at long on
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,that's the doosra as the ball pitches outside off and straightens as AB is beaten, as Harbhajan appeals even though it hit him outside off
Patel to Miller,1 run,turning in a bit and it's helped to backward square leg with the turn
Patel to de Villiers,no run
Patel to de Villiers,no run,takes a couple of steps down and AB takes it on the pad in front of middle and leg way outside the crease. Dhoni appeals for that too and umpire says no
Patel to de Villiers,no run,goes for the sweep against the turn and gets a bottom edge onto the pads
Patel to de Villiers,no run,full outside off and it's pushed back to the bowler
Patel to de Villiers,no run,angling in towards middle and leg, AB is cramped up for room and defends it to leg just in time
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,no run,two slips in place and Miller tries to reverse sweep dangerously, and misses
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,no run,takes a tiny step forward now and defends it back
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,no run,just outside off and he pushes it into the covers. He wants one, maybe wants to go off strike, and is sent back by AB
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,FOUR,nobody in the deep and Miller connects this time as it's slightly overpitched and he sweeps it, down on one knee to the midwicket boundary
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,no run,beautiful delivery tossed up outside off with flight and turn and he lets it go
Harbhajan Singh to Miller,OUT,oh, that's the other one, it doesn't turn but goes the other way after pitching on off and hit him right in front of middle stump on the front foot. The players appeal, the crowd appeals and Ravi's finger goes up
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,AB comes down again and pushes the ball down to long off for one
Patel to Behardien,no run,defends the fullish delivery back to the bowler
Patel to Behardien,no run,touch wider outside off and it's driven to cover now
Patel to Behardien,no run,clipped down to mid-on and AB is sent back for the single. He's back just in time and there's no direct hit
Patel to Behardien,1 run,turning away a bit from outside off, driven with the turn through the covers for one
Patel to de Villiers,no run,this one slides in and AB defends it in front of the stumps to the off side
Harbhajan Singh to Behardien,1 run,comes down the track and clips it with the turn to leg for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,turning in towards AB and he plays it with the turn behind square on leg
Harbhajan Singh to Behardien,1 run,tossed up around off and middle, flicked to the leg side
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,takes a step down and helps the ball to midwicket
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,comes down again for the flighted delivery and drives down to long on for one
Harbhajan Singh to Behardien,1 run,slower through the air and turning in, he goes back and defends it to leg for a quick single
Patel to Behardien,1 run,pretty flat outside off and it's pushed off the back foot to long off
Patel to de Villiers,no run,fullish outside off, he defends it back
Patel to de Villiers,no run,comes out of the crease, Axar pitches it short and flat and AB does well to defend it from well outside off
Patel to de Villiers,no run
Patel to de Villiers,3 runs,there's some turn outside off and thick edge flies away from first slip to the third man boundary before Mishra chases and slides to keep it in
Patel to Behardien,FOUR,edged again and this one wasn't far from Raina at first slip! Behardien drove outside off, got an edge and the ball flew between Dhoni and Raina in no time
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,pretty flight outside off and he pushes and misses
Mishra to de Villiers,3 runs,just outside off, he lets it turn and cuts it nicely in the gap behind backward point for three
Mishra to Behardien,no run,beats him outside off as Behardien pushes and misses
Mishra to Behardien,1 run,towards middle and leg and it's clipped to the leg side for one
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,AB comes down to negate the spin outside off and blocks it
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,beats AB too, to end the over as he goes in the crease to defend and the ball turns away
Patel to Behardien,1 run,slides it towards the off stump, Behardien pushes it down to long off
Patel to de Villiers,no run,bit too short outside off, AB rocks back to slam it through the covers and the cover fielder gets a hand to it
Patel to de Villiers,no run,comes down the track and offers his pad
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,cuts through the covers again and gets one this time
Patel to Behardien,no run,goes for a slog on the leg side against the turn and misses
Patel to Behardien,no run,length delivery on the off stump with some turn and Behardien gets a thick outside edge
Mishra to de Villiers,FOUR,bit of flight and AB sweeps it against the turn to the midwicket boundary. There's nobody there and he gets four
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,flighted around middle and off and it's paddle-swept towards fine leg for one
Mishra to Behardien,1 run,the googly comes in as the batsman goes on the back foot and gets one to the leg side
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,bit of flight outside off, there's turn too and it's chipped in the air through the covers for one
Mishra to Behardien,1 run,flatter outside off, pushed down to long off easily
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,towards middle stump now and AB paddles it again to the fine leg region for one
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,length delivery on off and it's driven down to long off
Patel to Behardien,1 run,even fuller outside off and he pushes it down to long off again
Patel to de Villiers,no run,AB goes for a wild swing now to the leg side and misses
Patel to de Villiers,no run,length delivery outside off, driven to cover
Patel to de Villiers,no run,towards the off stump now and it's pushed back to the bowler
Patel to de Villiers,FOUR,he goes down on a knee, and sweeps the ball off the middle of the bat to the backward square leg boundary for a four
Mishra to Behardien,1 run,tossed up outside off, pushed down to long off easily
Mishra to de Villiers,FOUR,comes down to take it as a low full toss and whips it with his wrists past mid on and wide of deep midwicket too to get four more. Excellent placement
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,teasing line and length outside off, it doesn't turn that much beats him
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,oh, what a miss! AB came down and missed the ball, it turned past Dhoni too and Raina had a shy at the stumps but missed it
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,goes back to pull and mistimes it, falls just short of midwicket
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,takes a step down and drives it to long off to get a single
MM Sharma to de Villiers,no run,swinging in a bit towards off stump and AB defends on the off side
MM Sharma to de Villiers,2 runs,towards the middle stump now and it's clipped away past midwicket in the gap for two
MM Sharma to de Villiers,no run,fullish and well outside off, AB taps it to point
MM Sharma to de Villiers,1 run,stays a bit low as AB stays back and punches it to sweeper cover
MM Sharma to Behardien,no run,length delivery around the off stump, Behardien drives it to cover
MM Sharma to Behardien,1 run,enough room this time outside off and FB taps it to third man for one
Mishra to Behardien,no run,nicely flighted on the off stump, Behardien blocks it back to the bowler
Mishra to Behardien,no run,flighted a touch wider outside off now, FB drives and misses, beaten by the turn and MSD even takes the bails off
Mishra to Behardien,1 run,goes towards off a little and pushes the ball down to long off for one
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,AB tries the sweep against the turn but misses and takes it somewhere close to his face because of the bounce
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,shorter outside off and it's chopped straight to cover point
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,flighted on off now and AB nicely turns it to midwicket for one
MM Sharma to de Villiers,no run,back of length outside off, AB tries to cut and misses. The ball keeps low too
MM Sharma to de Villiers,no run,136.7kph, short of length and closer to the off stump, AB defends it late on the off side
MM Sharma to de Villiers,1 run,much fuller now and AB drives it easily to deep cover for one
MM Sharma to Behardien,no run,141.7kph, bangs in the bouncer just over Behardien and it survives the wide call
MM Sharma to Behardien,no run,swinging in now towards leg stump and it's driven straight to midwicket
MM Sharma to Behardien,no run,bouncer to end the over too, as Behardien pulls and misses
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,almost caught, almost run out! AB went back in the crease for the ball that was way outside off, it turned away too and he pulled to leg. The ball fell short of mid on and FB wanted a single but was sent back and Mishra could not collect it properly. The throw from Bhuvi was wayward actually
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,waits for the googly and defends it back
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,comes down and drives the ball to mid on for one
Mishra to Behardien,no run,towards the off stump from length and he defends it back
Mishra to Behardien,2 runs,the slog-sweep goes high and Bhuvneshwar doesn't get to the ball in time running backwards from mid on, even though it was in the air for a while
Mishra to Behardien,1 run,pitched up and FB drives it with the turn into the covers
MM Sharma to Behardien,1 run,short of length outside off, FB taps the ball towards backward point and Jinxy the Cat was there but they take the risk and the throw goes over the stumps
MM Sharma to de Villiers,1 run,outside off again and he runs it down to third man for one
MM Sharma to Behardien,no run,swinging in towards middle and leg, it's helped to midwicket now
MM Sharma to Behardien,no run,bouncer outside off and he pulls it to midwicket after a bounce
MM Sharma to Behardien,1 run,swinging in again, he stays back and defends towards midwicket for a quick single
MM Sharma to de Villiers,no run,pretty straight on the off stump and AB defends it back off the back foot
Mishra to Behardien,no run,flighted outside off, FB drives but doesn't middle it
Mishra to Behardien,no run,loud, loud appeal but S Ravi says not out! Touch flatter outside off as FB goes back to cut, Dhoni takes the catch and celebrates but the umpire thinks there was no edge. Replays show there was a sound
Mishra to Behardien,no run
Mishra to Behardien,no run,goes back, the ball turns away sharply and lobs the ball in the air but it falls short of cover point
Mishra to Behardien,OUT,another appeal - this time for lbw and the finger goes up, this time FB doesn't look happy! FB went for the sweep for the straighter ball that pitched on off, missed the ball and was hit in front of off stump
Mishra to Morris,no run,turn this time from the off stump, the batsman presses forward and is beaten as the ball goes away
Kumar to de Villiers,FOUR,starts with the short ball and AB pulls it with some power to beat deep square leg and gets four!
Kumar to de Villiers,no run,bouncer outside the off stump and AB lets it go
Kumar to de Villiers,FOUR,width on offer outside off and AB slams it over the in field with a big swing, he's not in any trouble against the pacers and Bhuvi is having a bad day today. That brings up AB's fifty too
Kumar to de Villiers,FOUR,charges down for the ball on middle stump, AB swings again and gets an inside edge past the stumps to the leg side for four more!
Kumar to de Villiers,1 run,just back of length and it's tucked to leg for one
Kumar to Morris,no run,doesn't move his feet much and pushes the ball to mid on
Mishra to de Villiers,FOUR,too short, AB rocks back and opens up to pull it in the wide gap between long on and deep midwicket for four more
Mishra to de Villiers,FOUR,he's turning it on! Pitched up outside off, he goes for the reverse sweep and beats short third man for his fifth four in two overs
Mishra to de Villiers,no run
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,comes down and drives the ball in the air just wide of Mishra to long off
Mishra to Morris,no run,that's a beauty from Mishra - it pitched on leg and turned past Morris' outside edge outside the off stump
Mishra to Morris,no run,beaten again! Similar delivery on leg stump and it beats Morris who tries the front foot drive again
Kumar to de Villiers,1 run,good length ball on the off stump, AB defends it on the off side
Kumar to Morris,no run,Morris doesn't move much for the length delivery and defends it back
Kumar to Morris,no run,on good length outside the off stump and Morris pushes it down to mid off
Kumar to Morris,no run,short ball from Bhuvi outside off and he lets it go
Kumar to Morris,no run,angled into the batsman and he takes it on the pad, AB takes a step or two and then says no
Kumar to Morris,1 run,goes on the attack against the short ball, gets a top edge and it falls safe close to the square leg umpire
Harbhajan Singh to Morris,no run,pretty flat towards the leg side and Morris misses as he tries to sweep-pull
Harbhajan Singh to Morris,no run,another flat one towards the leg side, Morris is hit on the pad now
Harbhajan Singh to Morris,1 run,much slower now with some flight, he sweeps to deep fine leg now
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,FOUR,there's a big gap on the off side and AB gets into position for the reverse sweep, Harbhajan pitches it on the middle stump, AB is well outside off and he plays an unbelievable reverse-sweep like a left-hander to the cover boundary
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,the ball stops a bit as AB goes back and defends the ball in the air on leg, it falls just short of midwicket
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,fullish on the off stump and it's pushed down to long on and he keeps strike
Patel to de Villiers,no run,goes for a big swing as the ball is outside off, AB manages to not lose his balance as he misses
Patel to de Villiers,no run,goes for a slog sweep now and misses again
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,wider outside off and he drives with the turn to deep cover
Patel to Morris,no run,Morris goes for a sweep from way outside off but misses and is struck on the pad well outside off
Patel to Morris,FOUR,Morris also tries a reverse sweep, absolutely middles it and the ball flies away over the infield for a one-bounce four
Patel to Morris,1 run,fullish outside off and it's pushed down to long off for one
Harbhajan Singh to Morris,1 run,turning in from outside off and it's clipped to the leg side for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,shortish outside off and he cuts off the back foot for one
Harbhajan Singh to Morris,1 run,bit too short, Morries goes on the back foot and pulls it to deep midwicket for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,2 runs,comes down the track and lofts the ball nicely in the air in the gap between long on and deep midwicket. Jinxy runs from long on and keeps it in
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,AB takes it on the pad as it turns in and he doesn't connect
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,comes down this time to whip the ball to leg but is struck on the pad just outside off as Dhoni apepals
MM Sharma to Morris,OUT,loud appeal for lbw, he survives that and is looking down while AB wants a run, he has his arms in the air as if saying, "why aren't you running?" Morris realises that too late and takes off but there's a direct hit at the non-striker's end. And who was the fielder at point? Jinxy the Cat!
MM Sharma to de Villiers,2 runs,short ball from Mohit well outside off, AB throws his bat at it and gets a thick edge over backward point for two
MM Sharma to de Villiers,1 run,fullish outside off and he drives it down to mid off for one
MM Sharma to Phangiso,no run,length delivery on the off stump, Phangiso pushes that down to mid on with a straight bat
MM Sharma to Phangiso,1 leg bye,bouncer towards the head, it actually hits him on the helmet as he can't get himself out of the way in time and gets a leg bye to third man
MM Sharma to de Villiers,1 run,short ball to AB too, pull-swatted to deep midwicket for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,2 runs,pretty flat towards the middle stump, AB goes back and whips it to deep square leg for two
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,2 runs,comes down and goes for a big shot, doesn't connect well and manages it in no man's land again
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 leg bye,tries the sweep from leg stump and misses to be hit on the pad outside leg
Harbhajan Singh to Phangiso,1 run,full outside off and it's pushed down to long on for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,FOUR,comes down to take it on the full, lofts it straight down the ground and send the ball to the long of boundaries. Sadly, he's cramping up and not running properly
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,no run,tries the sweep now with the turn and is struck on the pad outside off
Mishra to Phangiso,1 run,pretty full outside off and it's driven into the covers for one
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,dances down to make it a low full toss and drives to mid off for one
Mishra to Phangiso,no run,googly turns in sharply, Phangiso didn't pick it and the ball goes off his body to slip
Mishra to Phangiso,no run,tries a sweep now and misses this too, hit near the face
Mishra to Phangiso,1 run,goes back in the crease now to turn the ball to leg for one
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,vicious turn now from middle and leg to well outside off, AB gets bat at the last moment to push to off and keeps strike
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,bit too short and AB pulls it to deep midwicket for one
Harbhajan Singh to Phangiso,1 run,nicely flighted well outside off, driven through the covers for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,1 run,fullish on middle and leg, flicked in the air wide of midwicket for one
Harbhajan Singh to Phangiso,no run,presses forward and blocks the delivery outside off
Harbhajan Singh to Phangiso,1 run,takes a step down and helps the ball just past midwicket for one
Harbhajan Singh to de Villiers,SIX,gives the charge on the last ball and tonks that high on the leg side with the spin, it goes very high and has enough distance to sail over deep midwicket for a big six
Mishra to Phangiso,no run,such sharp turn from off stump spinning away to beat the batsman
Mishra to Phangiso,1 run,touch wider outside off and he cuts it wide of cover for one
Mishra to de Villiers,SIX,charges down again and hammers that straight down near the sigh screen, that's six too and he reaches hundred, his 22nd!
Mishra to de Villiers,no run,full and driven into the covers
Mishra to de Villiers,1 run,outside off and turning away, punches off the back foot to sweeper cover
Mishra to Phangiso,2 runs,tucks the ball to deep square leg for two quick runs
Patel to de Villiers,2 runs,outside off, slammed over the covers and Harbhajan cuts it off deep in the covers
Patel to de Villiers,no run,turning away from off, he turns it to leg but Axar gets to it quickly
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,reverse sweeps the ball from off to short third man for a quick single
Patel to Phangiso,no run,beaten him completely! Pitched outside off, he looked to tuck it to leg and was beaten by the turn
Patel to Phangiso,1 run,this time he pushes the ball to mid on for one
Patel to de Villiers,1 run,goes on the back foot and cuts it wide of cover for one
Kumar to de Villiers,2 runs,short ball, he points his bat upwards and slaps it wide of long on, and wants two! And Dhoni, instead of collecting the ball deflects the ball off his pads to the stumps. Two geniuses at work as AB makes it
Kumar to de Villiers,2 runs,excellent running from AB as he heaves on the leg side and the ball goes to deep midwicket. AB's not cramping anymore as he makes it back again
Kumar to de Villiers,OUT,he's got the big wicket, AB is caught behind off a short ball after a fighting and valiant century! The bouncer seamed in, AB went for the pull and got an edge for Dhoni to take it low in front of him. AB gets a standing ovation as he waves his bat around
Kumar to Steyn,1 run,fullish outside off and he drives through the covers
Kumar to Phangiso,1 run,back of length outide off, he slices it to short third man for a quick one as the fielder fumbles
Kumar to Steyn,FOUR,pretty full and he slams it back, just wide of Bhuvi's right hand and that's hit hard enough to beat long on too
Mishra to Phangiso,2 runs,tossed up on the stumps and he slogs the full delivery between long and deep midwicket for two
Mishra to Phangiso,3 runs,comes down to loft the ball with the turn over the covers and Rohit dives forward but it falls well short of him. The ball deflects off him and they take a third
Mishra to Steyn,no run,presses forward slightly and defends it back
Mishra to Steyn,no run,tossed up slightly, Steyn slogs and misses
Mishra to Steyn,1 run,much fuller now and it's pushed down to long on for one
Mishra to Phangiso,1 run,slog-sweeps the ball against the turn from leg stump to deep square leg
Kumar to Phangiso,no run,137.3kph, short ball around off stump, Phangiso goes across to scoop on leg but misses
Kumar to Phangiso,FOUR,the short ball comes again and he scoops it on the other side now after making room. There's a short third man but the ball goes much finer for four
Kumar to Phangiso,OUT,short ball number three gets him another wicket! It was directed towards his body and Phangiso made room to pull, but got an edge high on off to be caught by a running Axar at short third man
Kumar to Steyn,no run,angles the short ball in, Steyn makes room and is then not in a position to pull so pulls out
Kumar to Steyn,OUT,this was also shortish, Steyn pulled and sent it high on the leg side to be caught by Jinxy the Cat running in from deep backward square leg. Made it look easy
Kumar to Rabada,1 run,short of length ball on the body, pulled to fine leg for one to keep strike
MM Sharma to Rabada,FOUR,it's full and wide and Rabada smokes that after opening up through the covers! Raina at cover got a hand to it but it went for four nevertheless
MM Sharma to Rabada,no run,slower bouncer outside off deceives Rabada as he looks to pull and misses
MM Sharma to Rabada,1 run,another slower ball outside off - 120kph - he slaps it over the mid on region for one
MM Sharma to Imran Tahir,1 leg bye,a lot of confusion, the ball deflects off the pads to point and he's called for one by Rabada so Tahir goes out of the crease but then Rabada changes his mind and Rahane misses a direct hit from point to concede an overthrow
MM Sharma to Rabada,no run
MM Sharma to Rabada,no run,another slower ball outside off, Rabada doesn't get close to the body while pulling and misses again
Kumar to Imran Tahir,no run,angles the bouncer in dangerously at 137kph and Tahir sways out of the line just in time
Kumar to Imran Tahir,no run,good length ball on the stumps and he defends on the leg side
Kumar to Imran Tahir,no run,this bouncer doesn't go over his head as Tahir leaves the ball outside off
Kumar to Imran Tahir,no run,slow and full this time at 108kph, Tahir swings and misses
Kumar to Imran Tahir,2 runs,short ball again and it's swatted to deep square leg for two
Kumar to Imran Tahir,no run,134kph, bouncer again and Tahir swings and misses
MM Sharma to Rabada,1 run,short ball angled in and he manages to get some bat while pulling it
MM Sharma to Imran Tahir,1 run,slower ball at 105.8kph around middle and leg, Tahir waits and waits and then helps it to leg awkwardly for one
MM Sharma to Rabada,no run,slow and wide outside off, Rabada pulls to leg and misses
MM Sharma to Rabada,1 run,tries a yorker and it's a low full toss on off stump, Rabada guides it to point for one
MM Sharma to Imran Tahir,no run,that was another run out chance missed, by Axar, as Tahir worked the ball to midwicket and Rabada wa sway out the crease but Axar missed at the bowler's end
MM Sharma to Imran Tahir,1 run,the last ball is lofted over the covers by Tahir and sweeper cover cuts it in